hi,nice to meet you.
hello,nice to meet you.
good morning.
good evening.
good afternoon.
good night.
Where to send the queries related to portal and approval related issues for the approval process 2021-22:
Institute are requested to raises queries only through online Grievance Redressal mechanism available on AICTE website under Approval Process 2021-22 quick links and no queries through
email will be entertained.

Does AICTE allow Arts and Science Courses in an Institution offering Engineering Courses:
The Institutions may conduct Academic Courses (Technical/ Non-Technical of any other Regulatory Body) using the existing facilities in excess or by creating additional facilities as
per the provisions laid down in the norms and standards of the respective Regulatory Body without affecting the quality of education prescribed by all the Regulatory Bodies after taking
NOC from the Council following the procedure specified in the Approval Process Handbook however the Applicant has to make Material/ Non-Material amendment of the Building Plan,
Site Plan, etc, approved by the concerned Competent Authority (if applicable) to suit the requirements of the new Programme/Level.

Is it mandatory for an Institution offering Courses in Architecture and Pharmacy to obtain Approval from AICTE:
In compliance of the order dated 08-11-2019 passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of Indian CA No-364/ 2005, for the existing Institutions offering Courses in Architecture Programme,
approval by the Council of Architecture (CoA) is mandatory and AICTE approval is not required and in compliance of the order dated 05-03-2020 passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in Transferred Petitions (CIVIL) No 87-101 of 2014, for the existing institutions offering
courses in Pharmacy Programme, approval of Pharmacy Council of India (PCI) is mandatory and AICTE approval is not required also State Public and Private Universities and Central Universities are also not required to take
AICTE approval as per the AICTE Act.
Whether MCA/ MBA Department of Arts and Science College is eligible to apply for AICTE approval:
Yes, In case of non-Technical Institutions seeking approval for conducting MCA/ MBA and University Departments/ Constituent Colleges seeking approval for conducting MCA/ MBA/ MTech Programmes apart from their existing Courses, separate building and Principal are not required however in such cases all other norms such as separate Head of the Department, Faculty,
Infrastructure, Built-Up area, etc.
Can we apply for closure of the existing Institution and open a new Institution at the same
premises:
Yes,The existing Institution applied for Closure of the Institution are also eligible to apply for starting a new Technical Institution in the same premises in the same Academic year,Technical Institutions applying under this Clause shall have to apply for Progressive/Complete Closure of the Institution for the existing Programme(s) and shall apply for a
different Programme,however, the Applicant has to make Material/ Non-Material amendment of the Building Plan, Site Plan, etc,duly approved by the concerned Competent Authority (if applicable) to suit the requirements of the new Programme however in case of change in Building Plan, the approval of present Competent Authority is required.
Whether AICTE approval is needed for running MCA Course in our Arts and Science
College:
Yes, In case of non-Technical Institutions seeking approval for conducting MCA/ MBA and University Departments/ Constituent Colleges seeking approval for conducting MCA/ MBA/ MTech Programmes apart from their existing Courses, separate building and Principal are not required however in such cases all other norms such as separate Head of the Department, Faculty,
Infrastructure, Built-Up area, etc.
Whether a New Institution is obligated to appoint a Principal and Faculty at the time of
application for approval or subsequent to approval before commencement of the Course?Whether the Faculty to be appointed are for the First Year of the Course or for the entire
period of the Course:
The New Institution is obligated to appoint a Principal and Faculty before the commencement
of the Course,The Faculty to be appointed are for the First Year of the Course and it will be
progressively done each year so that an Expert Visit Committee (EVC) conducted any time
before the first batch of students has passed out, the availability of the facilities of an
Institution as per the norms in Approval Process Handbook shall be verified.
We have been granted LoI in 2020-21 and LoA was rejected,How can we get LoA this year:
Applicants issued Letter of Intent (LoI) but rejected after the Expert Visit Committee shall
inform the Council about their readiness of infrastructure after making the payment of TER
Charges as per Clause 1-4-2 of APH 2021-22 through online mode for conduct of another
Expert Visit Committee (EVC) and  The validity of LoI is Two Years from the year of issue of LoI,in this case the validity is 
upto 2022-23.
We have got the first approval for our Institution in 2020-21 but we have not admitted
students due the delay in getting affiliation do we need to apply for EoA:
All the applicants issued LoA for starting the New Technical Institutions shall apply on
AICTE Web-Portal for Extension of Approval (EOA) as specified in the Approval Process
Handbook from the next Academic Year onwards, irrespective of the admission of the
students however, such institutes need to answer one Question related to this on portal in
order to avoid deficiency.
While applying, I had made a mistake in opting for FN/OCI, how can I rectify the mistake:
You can inform AICTE as per the procedure mentioned in Clause 2-3-8 of APH 2021-22.
We had applied for the Closure of the Institution, but now we have decided to apply for
EoA,How can I revert the application:
You can inform AICTE as per the procedure mentioned in Clause 2-3-8 of APH 2021-22.
We had 25 years of Live Lease at the time of our approval for establishment of new Technical
Institution, currently our Live Lease is 5 years,what should we do to get the EoA:
In case of Institutions having Lease agreement for Land, the Council shall NOT issue EoA
from the Year in which the Live Lease is equal to the number of years of the Course having
the maximum duration however, if such Institutions submit the Lease extended for further
30 years with at least 25 years of Live Lease, EoA shall be considered.
Our Institution was given Withdrawal of Approval in 2018-19,aren't we  able to apply
under 2021-22 application:
You have to apply ONLY as a New Institution in 2021-22.
The Institution has been placed under 20% reduction for 2020-21,how to get the full
Intake in 2021-22:
Institutions are required to apply for Restoration on the Web Portal.
Our Institution was placed under No admission/ No EoA/ Reduction in Intake category in
the previous year,aren't we able to create 2021-22 application:
Institutions are required to apply for Restoration on the Web Portal.
Our Institution got approval up to the Academic Year 2018-19 and we were unable to
submit application in 2019-20 and 2020-21,do we want to apply for 2021-22:
You are required to apply for Break in EoA on Web Portal and The same user ID and password
can be used.
We have taken approval from AICTE for the Engineering Courses in 2011-12 and After that
we could not take EoA from AICTE due to some reasons now we want to apply for EoA in
2021-22,We have ID and password allotted by AICTE in 2011,Should we continue to fill
our application on Web Portal of AICTE using that ID and Password:
Institutions that have NOT applied for EoA for last SIX YEARS consecutively shall NOT be
eligible to apply under Break in EoA and such Institutions shall apply ONLY as a new
Technical Institution following appropriate procedure for Closure of the Programmes/
Courses approved.
We have not applied for EoA in the past 3 years,Can we apply for Break in EoA as well as
for a new Programme:
The Institutions applying under Break in EoA/ Restoration shall NOT be permitted to apply
for other categories listed under Chapter II/ III/ V/ VI of the APH 2021-22.
Our Intake was reduced to 50% due to the enrollment less than 30% in the past 5 years
consecutively,The student admission this year is more than 30%,Should we have to apply
for Restoration in 2021-22:
The Institution falling under this category need not apply for restoration and the Intake shall
be automatically reinstated by the Council, if the enrolment becomes more than 30% based
on the student enrolment data provided by the Institution on AICTE Portal.
We have 5 Diploma Courses, Can we apply for conversion of Two Diploma Courses only into
Degree Courses:
No,Partial conversion of Courses / Programmes at any Levels is NOT permitted.
We are having UG and PG Courses in Engineering and Technology. We would like to apply
for conversion of our Under Graduate Courses into Diploma Level?Should we have to apply
for closure of PG Courses:
PG Courses in Engineering and Technology should be applied for closure and simultaneously
apply for conversion of UG into Diploma.
We would like to apply for conversion of our UG Degree Courses into Diploma Courses, but
we don’t find the nomenclature of certain Courses in Annexure 3,How can we apply:
You have to continue at the same Level or may opt for the closure of Course(s).
We are an Engineering Institution started in 2014-15 with an Intake of 300 seats and  We want
to start MBA and MCA Courses in the same Institution with same ID, What is the procedure:
You are permitted to apply for ONLY One new Programme/level in an existing Institution.
When an existing Institution applies for a new Programme, whether it have to comply
with the built up area and Infrastructural requirements of the new Programme only for First
year and/ or for the entire duration of the new Programme? Whether the existing Institution
and the new Programme can share the administrative and amenities areas by creating
exclusive Instructional area for the new Programme:
When an existing Institution applies for a new Programme, it has to comply with the built
up area and Infrastructural requirements of the new Programme only for First year and the
sharing of the administrative and amenities areas are permissible as far as it caters the need
of all the students for all the Programmes, with creation of exclusive instructional area for
the new Programme and progressively done each year to cater the requirement as per AICTE
norms.
Whether the existing Institution is entitled for starting only one new Programme and/ or
more than one new Programme in diploma, degree and PG? For example the existing
engineering Institutions wish to start a new Programme of Diploma in Engineering and UG
Design, whether it is possible.The Institutions shall be permitted to apply for ANYONE Level (Diploma/ Under Graduate)
in an existing Programme/ a new Programme.
Whether an Institution offering MBA could be merged with an Institution offering
Engineering Courses:
Yes, if both the Institutions are run by the same Trust/ Society/ Company.
Can we merge two Institutions located within same Campus/City:
The existing Institutions of the same Trust/ Society/ Company operating in the same location/
city shall be permitted to merge into a single Institution with all the facilities at the proposed
Parent Institution and/ or part/ full facilities of the Child Institution(s), if necessary,
If all the required facilities are available exclusively in the Parent Institution (without
depending on the facilities of the Child Institution(s)), as the Child Institution(s) shall be
considered for Complete Closure however, the convenience/ approachability of all
stakeholders of the Child Institution(s) to the Site/ Location of the Parent Institution shall also
be taken care of by the Institutions (including commutation) however, the norms of the
concerned Regulatory Bodies shall also be fulfilled (Refer Clause 2-10 of APH 2021-22).
 Can we merge few Courses of a Child Institution with Parent Institution and run the Child
Institution with the remaining Courses:
Not permissible.
Can we merge an Institution running Under Graduate Courses and a Polytechnic in
Engineering:
Yes.
We would like to apply for Conversion of Women’s Institution into Co-ed Institution,But the
enrolment in the last three years is not less than 60%,are we eligible to apply for the same:
You are eligible to apply for Conversion of Women’s Institution into Co-ed Institution, there
is no restriction on the enrolment provided Women Institutions fulfilled the requirement who
Co-ed Institutions as per APH.
How can we apply for Courses in Emerging /Multidisciplinary Areas in Engineering and
Technology:
You can apply for Increase in Intake/ Additional Course(s) in Emerging /Multidisciplinary
Areas, provided the eligibility conditions mentioned in 2-14 and 7-3-2 of APH 2021-22 are
fulfilled.
How can we apply for addition seats in Indian / Regional Languages at Diploma/Degree level
Courses in Engineering and Technology:
National Education Policy 2020 envisages the availability of Higher Technical Education in
Indian / Regional Languages at Diploma/Degree level,AICTE shall permit an addition of ONE
division with 30/60 seats to the eligible and interested institutes and Institutions seeking approval
shall be permitted for Increase intake ONLY in Accredited courses.
We have One Course with valid NBA accreditation,how many increase/ new Course our
Institution is eligible:
Institutions shall be eligible for new Course(s)/ expansion of existing Course(s), equal to the
number of valid NBA accredited Course(s), limited to a maximum of FOUR within the
definition of Division/ Programme/ Level.
Our Institution has valid NBA accredited Courses,is it necessary to upload valid NBA letter
on portal and send hard copy to Regional Office:
No,however, the information related to validity of NBA accredited Courses need to be
provided on portal but, your institution need to produce the additional documents including
NBA letter at the time of Scrutiny Committee.
Our Institution has applied for NBA, whether we are eligible for adding a new Course:
Yes, provided accreditation of existing Course is known officially before April 10, 2021 and
subject to the fulfilment of other norms as per APH 2021-22.
Our Institution has obtained Provisional Accreditation for two Courses which are valid till
2019. I have used these Courses for adding two new Courses during 2018-19. If my
Institution secures Provisional accreditation again during 2019 for the same Courses, can I
apply for the introduction of New Course/ increase in Intake using it:
No,A Course having valid NBA accreditation can be used for adding New Course/ increase
in Intake only once within a span of 6 years.
Our Institution has obtained Accreditation for two Courses which are valid till 2018 and I have
used these Courses for adding two new Courses during 2017-18,If my Institution got the
renewal of accreditation again afterinspection during 2018 for the same Courses, can I apply
for the introduction of New Course/ increase in Intake using it:
Yes, A Course having valid NBA accreditation can be used for adding New Course/ increase
in Intake only once within a span of 6 years,however, if the accreditation of any Course is
renewed after the Inspection by NBA, the Institutions shall utilize the benefit of such
accreditation once again for an increase in the Intake/ Introduction of a new Course.
Our Institution is not eligible to apply for NBA accreditation but we want expansion/ new
Courses how we can apply:
Institutions can apply for new Courses as per Clause 2-1-4 of APH 2021-22.
We don’t have accreditation, but we would like to add two Courses one with 30 Intake
and another with 60 Intake by closing a Course with 90 Intake,is this permissible:
ONLY one new course with 30/60 intake in Emerging / Multidisciplinary Areas is possible,
provided the eligibility conditions mentioned in APH 2021-22 Clause 2-14-4 are fulfilled.
Is there any limit on the addition of number of new Courses in lieu of closing existing
Course(s):
ONLY one new course with 30/60 intake in Emerging / Multidisciplinary Areas is possible,
provided the eligibility conditions mentioned in APH 2021-22 Clause 2-14-4 are fulfilled.
Our Engineering Institution started in 2017-18,could you kindly help with the
information on applying for new Courses:
Institutions can apply for new Courses as per Clause 2-1-4 of APH 2021-22.
We are offering Courses in Design Programme,We are not eligible to apply for NBA,how
can we apply for new PG Course:
The Institutions offering the Courses in Applied Arts and Crafts and Design shall be eligible
to apply for new Course(s) at the Post Graduate Level only after two batches of students pass
out and the same shall be permitted for a maximum of FIVE Courses/ Divisions, subject to
“Zero Deficiency” based on Self-Disclosure on AICTE Web-Portal,however, for every Post
Graduate Course, there should be at least one Professor with PhD qualification,in case of
non-availability of qualified Professor, an Associate Professor may be considered,
As and when accreditation for the above Courses is started by the NBA, such Institutions who
have been approved by the AICTE to run Course(s) at the Post Graduate Level shall obtain
NBA accreditation within TWO years.
Whether a few of the existing Courses shall be continued, while introducing few new
Courses:
Yes,The existing Institution without NBA Accreditation can apply for closure of few existing
Courses in the Programme and introduce new Courses in the same Programme at same Level,
without exceeding the total “Approved Intake”/ “Maximum Intake Allowed”, as applicable,
as well as the number of Courses/ Divisions as specified in Appendix 3 of the Approval
Process Handbook, subject to “Zero Deficiency” based on Self-Disclosure on AICTE Web
Portal,An Expert Visit Committee may be conducted, any time before the first batch of
students has passed out, to verify the fulfilment of the norms as specified in the Approval
Process Handbook.
Whether the maximum permissible Intake after the closure of certain existing Courses
and introduction of certain new Courses shall be the existing Intake of the academic year
2020-21 or the maximum of 300:
Yes,The existing Institution without NBA Accreditation can apply for closure of few existing
Courses in the Programme and introduce new Courses in the same Programme at same Level,
without exceeding the total “Approved Intake”/ “Maximum Intake Allowed”, as applicable,
as well as the number of Courses/ Divisions as specified in Appendix 3 of the Approval
Process Handbook, subject to “Zero Deficiency” based on Self-Disclosure on AICTE Web
Portal,An Expert Visit Committee may be conducted, any time before the first batch of
students has passed out, to verify the fulfilment of the norms as specified in the Approval
Process Handbook.
Whether the Faculty and the Infrastructural facilities for the new Course and / or increase
in Intake in the existing Course are to be for the First Year of the new Course and / or
increase in Intake or for the entire duration of the new Course and / or Intake:
The Faculty, Infrastructural facilities and other requirements have to be fulfilled for the
new Course and / or increase in Intake in the existing Course for the First Year of the new
Course and/ or increase in Intake. An Expert Visit Committee may be conducted, any time before the first batch of students has passed out, to verify the fulfilment of the norms as
specified in the Approval Process Handbook.
Our Institution is not eligible to apply for NBA accreditation and we have 5 Courses with total
Intake of 300,Can we start a new Course by closing one existing Course:
Yes,Provided the overall enrolment in the A/Y 2019-20 is greater than 50% & NIL
Deficiency on Portal based on Self-Disclosure.
We are a private Polytechnic Institution approved last year, running 5 branches with 300
Intake ,now we want to apply for Increase in Intake and add for new Courses,how many
Courses we can add:
You cannot add any new Branch/Course or increase in Intake and Institutions already with
Maximum Intake Allowed, but NOT eligible to apply for NBA for any of their courses, shall
apply for closure of Course(s) and apply for increase in Intake/ new Course within the
maximum permissible Intake as per APH 2021-22.
Is Integrated ME/ MTechProgramme permitted:
Yes.
We are offering Courses in Engineering and Technology,We would like to offer allied
Vocational Courses,What is the procedure:
Institutions shall be permitted to conduct Vocational Course.
Can we merge Production Engineering Course with Intake 60 and Mechanical Engineering
Course with Intake 60, to offer a single Course in Mechanical Engineering with Intake 120:
Merger of Courses as per Broad Classification as per Annexure- 6 / 7 (Diploma or UG Level)
of APH 2021-22 is ONLY Permitted.
We have Three Divisions in Computer Science Engineering and Three Divisions in
Information Technology,Can we get Six Divisions in Computer Science Engineering after
merging:
Merging is permitted as per the nomenclatures given in Annexure 6, so that the Intake after
merging shall be equal to the sum total of the individual Courses and Divisions, subject to
the condition that total number of Divisions after merging per Course shall NOT exceed
THREE Divisions (180), provided the Faculty student ratio be maintained.
Can we merge BE Electrical Engineering Course with BE Computer Science Engineering
Course:
Not permissible.
We want to apply for reduction in Intake within a Division for certain Courses,What is the
maximum number of UG and PG Courses, we can opt for reduction:
There is no limit, any number of UG and PG Courses may be selected,However, the reduction
in intake (value) within division is allowed ONLY as per the Provisions of APH 2021-22.
We, Polytechnic Institution, want to reduce the Intake one of Course namely Electronics and
Telecommunication Engineering from 60 to 30,Can we do the same:
In any Course, within a Division, (non-Zero) reduction (ie 60 to 30) is permissible.
Our Institution has become a University,Do we have to apply as a new University under
Chapter I or can we apply for EoA as a University:
You can apply for EOA as a University with change of Type of Institution (No need to apply
as a new University under Chapter I),However, change
of status will be applicable from next Academic Year.
In a State, if one University is merged with another University (by State Government), how
to change the name of the affiliating University under Course Tab:
Select the Question available under Questionnaire “Do you wish to change the Affiliating
University?” Then select the answer as “Yes” and select the name of new affiliating
University from the drop down menu then Contact Approval Bureau along with a request letter
in the Letter head of the Institution enclosing copies of State Government resolution/
Gazette Notification,in such cases, NOC form State Government/ University are not
required.
Name of our affiliating University does not appear in the affiliating University drop down:
Contact Approval Bureau for inclusion of the University name in the portal. Send an email
of Institution representation on the Letter head to helpdesk.
Our Institution was approved as a Private/ Un-aided Institution,Recently our Institution has
been recognized as minority Institution,how to update this change in AICTE Portal:
You can apply on the Portal for Change of Minority Status.
Our Institution has extended EoA upto 2022,When we apply in the Portal for Increase in
Intake, the Portal is calculating the TER Charges,are we not exempted from payment:
Institutions approved for extended EoA are waived from paying TER Charges for Extension
of Approval (EoA) ONLY for the extended years for the existing Programme(s) and
Course(s) at the time of issue of Extended EoA,however, such Institutions are required to
submit the application for EoA and maintain ALL the norms and standards as specified in
the Approval Process Handbook,in the subsequent years (within the duration of Extended
EOA), if the Institution intends to apply for any other categories, the corresponding TER
Charges as per Approval Process Handbook shall be paid.
What is the last date of submission of hard copy application at Regional Office for the
applications:
HARD COPIES OF THE APPLICATION/ ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS NEED NOT BE
SUBMITTED TO THE REGIONAL OFFICE,As per APH 2021-22, ANY DOCUMENTS NEEDS
TO BE SUBMITTED / REQUIRED then such documents shall be Digitally Signed & uploaded
on AICTE web portal and  Applications other than those for Extension of Approval to be
processed by the Scrutiny/ Re-Scrutiny Committee shall present their application and all original documents along with self-attested copies before the Committee (if offline),Refer APH for the documents (as applicable) to be uploaded in the Web-Portal.
Whether a State Technical University is required to take approval of AICTE to conduct
Technical Courses:
State Universities do not require prior approval of AICTE to commence a new Department
or Course and Programme(s) in Technical Education, however Universities have obligation
or duty to conform to the standards; and norms laid down by the AICTE from time to time.
Ours is a Deemed to be University/ Private University established under UGC Act offering
Technical Programmes but not seeking approval from AICTE,What is the procedure for
getting the Programmes approved by AICTE:
Institutions Deemed to be Universities seeking approval for the first time from AICTE (in
compliance to the order dated 03-11-2017 passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court Order CA
No. 17869-17870 / 2017) shall submit an application as a new Technical Institution,
Private Universities interested in seeking approval for the first time from AICTE may submit
an application as a new Technical Institution.
Our University is 07 years old Private University approved by UGC,Whether Private
University running technical Programmes/ Courses in Engineering, Management,
Architecture, MCA, etc are required to obtain AICTE approval:
State Private Universities do not require prior approval of AICTE to commence a new
Course and Programme(s) in Technical Education (Engineering, Management, etc),
however State Private Universities have the obligation or duty to conform to the standards
and norms laid down by the AICTE from time to time,State Private Universities interested in seeking approval for the first time from AICTE may
submit an application as a new Technical Institution.
We are Standalone Institutions offering PGDM Courses,Can we apply for ODL and/or
Online Courses:
Yes,Subject to fulfilling eligibility conditions mentioned in Chapter- 5 of APH 2021-22.
We would like to apply for a new Course, but the nomenclature is not available in the drop
down, How to apply:
If any Institution proposes to start a new Course whose nomenclature is not available in
Appendix 2 of the Approval Process Handbook, prior concurrence, as the case may be, by
the Council for the same shall be necessary,For such concurrence, the Institution with due
endorsement by the Registrar/ Director of affiliating University/ Board/ Technical
Institution shall submit detailed Syllabus and Curriculum and its nomenclature to the Policy
and Academic Planning Bureau, AICTE before 30th September of the Calendar Year, to
process the same in the respective Board,Only Recommended Courses Nomenclatures will
be included in in the ensuing year APH.
Is Adjunct Faculty being considered for the requisite Faculty Student ratio:
In case of Planning - 30% and Design - 20%, Adjunct Faculty/ Resource Persons are
permissible, since the Programme requires exhaustive practical field exposure,In all other
Programmes, ONLY under exigent conditions such as relieving/ retirement of Faculty
members/ delay in Faculty recruitment, Institutions may avail the services of Adjunct
Faculty/ Resource Persons up to a maximum of 10% of the required Faculty members as
per the “Approved Intake”, for a period not exceeding one Academic Session and Refer
Annexure 9 for the Guidelines for the appointment of Adjunct Faculty/ Resource Persons.
Whether Faculty not recruited on Regular basis shall be considered for Faculty Student ratio:
The contractual Faculty who have taught for 2 consecutive semesters in the preceding
Academic Year on Full Time basis ONLY shall be considered for the purpose of calculation
of Faculty.
Can we convert our First and Second Shift Diploma Courses into Degree Courses:
The Courses offered in the timings of Regular Shift, First Shift, Second Shift and Part Time
shall be considered as Regular Courses,The Institutions shall have to fulfil all facilities such
as Infrastructure, Faculty and other requirements to offer the Regular Courses as per the
norms specified in the Approval Process Handbook for the Total Approved Intake and the
Institutions may conduct the Courses in the timings of Regular Shift, First Shift, Second Shift
and Part Time not exceeding the “Approved Intake” of each Course, as per the convenience
of all stakeholders,All such Institutions shall create the necessary Faculty, Infrastructure
and other facilities WITHIN 2 YEARS to fulfil the norms (before the completion of A/Y 2021-
22)and Student enrolment details shall be uploaded in the Web-Portal, Hence the Council will
consider the issue of EoA till such time.
We were running First Shift (180) and Second Shift (120), currently the portal shows a
single number with both the Intakes because of this, we are getting deficiencies, Please
change the Intake as that of the last year:
The Courses offered in the timings of Regular Shift, First Shift, Second Shift and Part Time
shall be considered as Regular Courses,The Institutions shall have to fulfil all facilities such
as Infrastructure, Faculty and other requirements to offer the Regular Courses as per the
norms specified in the Approval Process Handbook for the Total Approved Intake and the
Institutions may conduct the Courses in the timings of Regular Shift, First Shift, Second Shift
and Part Time not exceeding the “Approved Intake” of each Course, as per the convenience
of all stakeholders,All such Institutions shall create the necessary Faculty, Infrastructure
and other facilities WITHIN 2 YEARS to fulfil the norms (before the completion of A/Y 2021-
22)and Student enrolment details shall be uploaded in the Web-Portal, Hence the Council will
consider the issue of EoA till such time.
We have an Approved Intake of 60 seats in Electronics and Communication Engineering in
UG Course now we want to reduce the Intake by 30 in Electronics and Communication
Engineering and in lieu of it can we would like to add the one Division of 30 students in
lateral entry in Engineering UG Course:
It is NOT permissible.
Whether our Institution can start ITI with same Infrastructure available in our Polytechnic:
Yes,The Institutions may conduct skill development
Courses of any other Regulatory Body using the existing facilities, or by creating additional
facilities as per the provisions laid down in the norms and standards of the respective
Regulatory Bodies without affecting the quality of education prescribed by both Regulatory
Bodies after taking NOC from the Council.
What is the duration of MCA Course? Lateral Entry Permissible in MCA:
Two Years,hence Lateral Entry is NOT permissible.
For Under Graduate Degree Programme in Engineering Technology, whether Diploma
qualified students will also be considered on par with students passed 10+2 examination:
Yes, in addition to that Students passed Diploma (in Engineering and Technology) will be
considered, subject to vacancies in the First Year, in case the vacancies at lateral entry are
exhausted.
How do we implement the rationalization of nomenclature suggested by the AICTE in
Management Programme:
The nomenclature of the Courses in Management after rationalization will be visible in your
application. The revised nomenclatures are also communicated to all Universities,in case
of difficulty in adopting the nomenclatures, the respective University shall be contacted or
if the issue persists, raise your grievance in the Portal.
Do we need Research Laboratory for each PG Course:
No,Research Laboratory is to be provided for each Institution offering Post Graduate
Courses.
How the Mega and Metro Cities, Urban Area and Rural Area have been determined:
The classification of cities has been made as per Census 2011 data.
We are running Five PG Courses in Civil Engineering,how many Professors with PhD
qualification are required:
For every PG Course, there should be at least one Professor with PhD qualification.
What is the Faculty Student ratio to be maintained by the Institutions Deemed to be
Universities/ Institutions having Accreditation/ Autonomous status:
Institutions Deemed to be Universities/ Institutions having Accreditation (of one or any
number of Courses)/ Autonomy status shall have Faculty-Student as 1:15 in Under
Graduate Degree Level in Engineering and Technology Courses and maintain a better Cadre
ratio in order to achieve excellence in Technical Education. All such Institutions shall create
the necessary Faculty, Infrastructure and other facilities WITHIN 2 YEARS to fulfil the
norms,hence the Council will consider the issue of EoA till such time.
In Appendix10 subscription of journals, what is N:
N is the Total number of Courses.
With reference to APH 2021-22, whether subscription of E-journal is mandatory:
Subscription of the journal will add value to the quality
of Technical education and skill,however, subscription of E-Journals is mandatory for the
Institutions offering PG Courses.
Is it essential to have representative of AICTE in the Board of Governors:
The suggested composition of Board of Governors for the AICTE approved Institutions has
been given in Appendix 18 of APH 2021-22,Nominee of the All India Council for Technical
Education is mandatory to PGDM Institutions Only.
Please clarify the qualification and age limit of Adjunct Faculty. Whether a same Adjunct
Faculty can be associated with different Institutions? Is there any restriction for Maximum
no of Institutions that an Adjunct Faculty should be associated:
Adjunct Faculty shall not be engaged in not more than
two Institutions at the same time.
Can we charge the Fee as per the Recommendation of National Fee Committee given in APH
2021-22:
Institutions have to contact the respective State Fee Regulatory Committee for finalizing the
Fee.
How much is the Development Fee is recommended by the National Fee Committee:
No split up for Development Fee is available in the report of the National Fee Committee.
What is the procedure for conversion of Technical Institution into Technical Campus:
There is no provision to convert a Technical Institution into Technical Campus,The Institutions shall be permitted to apply for ANYONE Level (Diploma/
Under Graduate) in an existing Programme/ a new Programme, not exceeding THREE
Division(s)/ Course(s),however, the norms of the concerned Regulatory Authorities shall
also be fulfilled and also, refer Merger of Institutions Clause in APH 2021-22.
We want to change the details which are non-editable/ read-only,how this can be done:
If the Institution intend to modify the Non-Editable fields such as Land details, etc  shall
contact AICTE HQ (Approval Bureau) with supporting documents.
Whether Affidavit can be submitted in e-Stamp Paper:
Yes, as well as physical stamp paper.
Is TER Charges refundable if application is rejected:
TER Charges shall not be refunded in any case, if the application is processed and rejected
as specified in the Approval Process Handbook,however, if application is rejected at the Level of Scrutiny/ Re-Scrutiny (as per Clause 1-6 of APH 2021-22) without availing the
appeal provision, TER Charges as applicable shall be refunded to the Applicant/ Institution.
When we have established our Institution in 1980, we have got the Completion Certificate
issued by the then Competent Authority, but we don’t have Occupancy Certificate for 2018,how can we apply for EoA:
Your Completion Certificate is acceptable,Structural Stability Certificate from the
registered Structural Engineer is to be submitted after the expiry of a period of thirty years
from the issue of Completion Certificate.
How to get a copy of Corrigendum EoA / Corrigendum LoA in case of corrections made in
EoA or LoA from AICTE Web Portal:
Institution need to check drop down menu and click on ‘Corrigendum EoA’ or ‘Corrigendum
LoA’ as the case may be, instead of clicking on ‘EoA’ or ‘LoA’ menu.
Whether e-Affidavit is mandatory:
E-affidavit is preferable NOT mandatory.
How can an Institution apply for National Digital Library:
Ministry of Human Resource Development under its National Mission on Education through
Information and Communication Technology (NMEICT) has initiated the National Digital
Library (NDL) pilot project to develop a framework of virtual repository of learning
resources with a single window search facility,The pilot project is devising a framework
suitable for future scale up with respect to content volume and diversity to become a fullblown National Digital Library of India over time, It is being developed at IIT Kharagpur and It is offered at absolute Free of Cost.
What is National Academic Depository? How to apply:
NAD is a Unique, Innovative and Progressive step towards achieving Digital enablement of
the Education Records, NAD aspires to make the vision of Digital Academic Certificates for
every Indian a reality, NAD is not only a database copy of the certificate records for
Academic Institutions but a complete system for Issuing Online Certificates to well identified
and registered students, It will be an active online place for Students, Academic Institutions
and Verification Users.
What is Food and Safety Act 2006? How to comply with its norms:
It is an act under Ministry of Law and Justice to consolidate the laws relating to food and to
establish the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India for laying down science based
standards for articles of food and to regulate their manufacture, storage, distribution, sale
and import, to ensure availability of safe and wholesome food for human consumption and
for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto ,The Canteen/ Mess running in all AICTE approved Institutions should obtain a certificate
from the Local Self Government/ any other Competent Authority stating that the same is
complying with the norms and standards mentioned in the Act.
Is it necessary to provide details for Quality Education Mandate:
Yes,It is mandate for all the Institutions.
Is it permitted to change Minority status to Non Minority:
Yes, it is possible as per Clause 2-20-2 of APH 2021-22.
If a Central University taking approval for engineering programme at PG Level only and
running Management, MCA programme is it mandatory to take approval of AICTE for all
other technical programme:
Yes, it is mandatory, no partial approval for the programme/ course issued to Universities
from AY 2021-22 as per Clause 4-3-3 of APH 2021-22.
Is DSC mandatory for submission of online application for New and Existing Institutions:
Yes, it is mandatory.
Existing institutions can start new programme/ level in engineering:
Existing institutions can start New engineering program only in emerging area courses.
Whether AICTE will give approval for Technical courses at Diploma /Degree level in
Regional language:
Yes, Additional division of 30/60 seats in Regional languages against each valid NBA
accredited courses.
Is there any TER charges applicable for starting Vocational courses under NSQF:
No TER charges for starting New Vocational courses under NSQF.
It is possible to have Collaboration and Twinning programme between Two Indian
Institutions/ Indian and Foreign Universities:
Yes,Institutions fulfilling the conditions are eligible
to start program/ courses under Collaboration and Twinning.
Whether Govt aided Technical institutions running self-financing courses need to pay TER
Charges:
No, as per Cause 2-3-3 of APH 2021-22,Government Aided Institutions are Exempted from
payment of TER Charges ONLY from this A/Y 2021-22.
Whether TIN/GST number for any Industry is Mandatory in order to have MoU with AICTE
approved Institutions:
YES.
Whether Lateral entry admission is considered forthe enrolment calculation under reduction
in intake category of punitive action:
Yes, Institute having less than 50% admission in last 5 years along with lateral entry
admission is considered.
Whether any institution can conduct a course or program affiliated to two different
Universities:
No.
Clarify whether a two years old AICTE approved institution with intake of 120 can apply for
increase in intake up to 180 seats without NBA Accreditation:
Yes, up to 180 (three divisions) in different courses,however, total intake more than 300
shall NOT be permitted.
Whether Standalone B HMCT college can apply for closure and start New program in same
establishment :
Yes,Simultaneous Closure of One Program and Opening of New Program Permitted.
What is the procedure to start MCA Program in a University:
Universities are permitted to Start any Technical Program (including MCA) without prior
approval of AICTE,however, all the University need to maintain Norms & Standards
prescribed by AICTE for running such programs from time to time.
A State Govt University running 3 Programs (MBA, MCA and BArch),Is it necessary to
take approval of AICTE for running these Programmes:
It is optional for State Govt University to take Approval of AICTE for running any of the
above mentioned Programs,however, they need to maintain Standards and Norms
prescribed by Concerned Regulatory Authorities.
After the Merger of two courses under the same Major Disciple as per 2-18-1-c, Page No 59,
what will be the allowed maximum intake:
Intake after merger shall be equal to the sum total of individual courses, subject to the
condition that total no of divisions after merger should NOT exceed 3 Divisions.
Courses on Emerging areas like AI & DS, CSE (DS), CSE (AI &ML) etc  are not mentioned in
Annexure 6 of APH under Major Discipline CS & E,whether All such courses will be
permitted as emerging area courses under the Major Discipline of CS&E in A/Y 2021-22 or
NOT:
Only AI and DS can be offered as full-fledged Emerging Area Course and Rest can be offered
ONLY as a Minor / Hons under CSE.
We would like to apply for two new courses, one in BE CSE (AI and ML) and the other one
in BE CSE (Data Science) under CSE department which is already running BE CSE for
which SAR submitted to NBA.
BE CSE (AI and ML) and BE CSE (Data Science) can be offered as a Minor / Hons under
existing CSE Course.
Please enlightened us, regarding how to produce quality students with good technical
knowledge:
AICTE is already having Margdarshak and Margdarshan Schemes,The institute having
Marg Darshak are taking care of nearby institution for enhancing the quality of technical
education to produce quality students.
As there are no parameters mentioned in hand book for Pharmacy,how can we fill the
extension of approval form for Pharmacy:
Provision is made available on portal for the Existing Pharmacy Institutes having valid PCI
approval (& willing to continue with AICTE) to apply for Extension of Approval.
Is it possible to get approval for New course in Emerging Area by reducing intake from 180
to 120 in Mechanical Course (without NBA):
Yes,however, Institute needs to fulfil other conditions as per APH 2021-22 (Overall
enrolment greater than 50% & Nil Deficiency, NOC etc).
What is the procedure for merging UG and PG courses running in same institute with one
college ID :
UG courses can NOT be merged with PG courses,Merger allowed only at Respective Level.
AICTE has made mandatory for the class 3 DSC, for 2 members,whether the DSC should
be procured in the same name for both or separately as specified by AICTE:
DSCs should be procured as specified by AICTE, separately for each individual by position /
designation.
Whether a Standalone Architecture Institution approved by Council of Architecture, can be merged with parent institution approved by AICTE:
YES,if Architecture Institution is also having the approval of AICTE.
UG engineering college having sanctioned intake of 300 with 5 courses,whether New
course with intake 60 by reducing intake of two existing courses by 30 each can be added:
Yes,Provided other conditions mentioned in APH are fulfilled.
Will there be any decision on awarding Autonomy for Polytechnics:
Under consideration by AICTE.
Whether Institute can apply for three courses in Emerging Areas like Data Science, Artificial
Intelligence, IOT, Cybersecurity etc:
Yes,If the institute have at least three valid NBA Accredited courses and fulfilling other
conditions.
Can we start diploma level course in areas other than Emerging /Multidisciplinary Areas:
In Engineering and Technology Program, the approval for any New Course at any Level shall
be ONLY in Emerging /Multidisciplinary Areas.
Is the faculty to students ratio will be 1-20 for 2021-22 and 1-15 from 2022-23 for
Accredited and Autonomous Colleges:
AICTE institution should have FSR of 1-20 (UG Engineering & Technology),However,
Accredited and Autonomous institutions need to have 1-15 to maintain the quality education.
Can we go for restoration of intake of only few courses :
Yes.
Which Norms Architecture Colleges Should follow for taking AICTE Approval (Not
mentioned in APH 2020-21):
Provision is made available on portal forthe Existing Architecture Colleges / Institutes having
valid COA approval (& willing to continue with AICTE) to apply for Extension of Approval,Similarly, new Architecture Institute seeking AICTE Approval should have valid approval of
COA on the date of submission of application on AICTE Portal.
AICTE granted approval for Vocational Courses last year, but State Government does not
publish it in their GR, Accordingly, the University NOT given affiliation to these Vocational
courses,so what is the status of these courses in 2021-22:
Institute may apply for grant of EOA from AICTE during the validity period of LOA,also,
take up the issue with State Govt. to get it publish in State GR followed by affiliation from
the concerned affiliating University.
Can we apply for New Course in existing Diploma college within Maximum Allowed Intake:
Yes, if the institute fulfils conditions laid down in APH 2021-22.
Mechanical Engineering course is Accredited by NBA is having 180 Intake now,is it possible
to start new course in Emerging Area by reducing the intake from 180 to 120 in Mechanical
Engineering:
Yes, if institute fulfils conditions laid down in APH 2021-22.
Whether reducing seats in MCA and MBA can be used for additional courses in BTech
Program:
No,MBA and MCA are different Programs.
Earlier Physics and mathematics were mandatory subjects in 10+2 level to take admission to
Engineering,are these subjects NOT mandatory from 2021-22:
Concerned State Authorities / Universities will decide on the
eligibility criteria for admission to Engineering courses.
Can Autonomous and Non-autonomous Institutions under the same TRUST in the same city
can be merged :
Yes.
Whether Institute can Increase the intake more than last academic year 2020 -21 by applying
for new courses in the Emerging Areas in this academic year 2021-22:
No (Without NBA Accredited Courses Not possible),however, Institute can apply for New
Course in Emerging Area by reducing the intake in Existing Courses & fulfilling other
conditions of APH 2021-22.
Within the total intake of the institute, can we reduce the intake in any one of the UG course
and increase the intake (using reduced one) in another UG program,is it Possible :
No.
During 2010 when AICTE made online provisionsfor EOA, our clerical staff wrongly entered
land area,Now how to correct it:
Please write to AICTE HQ through your Regional Office regarding your issue with supporting
documents.
Can we adjust 180 seats in Emerging Areas by reducing intake of 180 through closure of
course/ reduction in course keeping the intake as intact:
Emerging Area course is limited to one with 30 / 60 Intake.
Is it possible to merge Diploma Institution into Degree Institution under same trust or
Society:
Yes.
Our institute is under Extended EoA, shall we require to apply for EoA annually,as per APH
2021-22, in which category we should apply (EOA based on self-disclosure or Extended EoA):
EoA based on self-disclosure.
We have closed our MCA Course During 2012-13. Now We wish to Offer MCA Course
from the Academic Year 2021-22,shall we need to apply as New Institutions or Existing
Institution:
As a New Institute,however, Existing Institutes can also start MCA as a New Program by
full filling the conditions of APH 2021-22.
When will inspection for Merger of Institutions take place (after shifting the facilities from
child institution to parent institution or before):
EVC will take place only after Scrutiny,EVC will check for all the
facilities required to run the courses after merger as per the outcome of SC/Re-SC.
In case of merger, kindly clarify whether facilities such as labs equipment need to be shifted
from child to parent institute before EVC visit or after approval it has to be shifted:
EVC will take place only after Scrutiny,EVC will check for all the
facilities required to run the courses after merger as per the outcome of SC/Re-SC.
The Nomenclature of PGDM Part Time and Executive PGDM programme is NOT available in
nomenclature list:
No Part Time Courses allowed,now all the courses need to be conducted in Regular mode
or in Online / ODL mode.
Do we require approval from CoA for diploma in Architecture:
Approval of Council of Architect (COA) is essential for Architecture courses.
If there is a break in EOA for MBA program for more than six years and IF it is a State
University and MCA Department has AICTE approval,what is the procedure for getting
AICTE approval for MBA program:
University department has to apply as a New Program along with MCA (under the same
PID).
Want to start standalone PGDM college using extra land with us,The land is in the name of
society but building plan in the name of existing college,can we need building plan in the
name of new Institute:
If the existing land and building as required as per the APH 2021-22 for the Standalone
Institution with proper demarcation. Otherwise, not permissible.
Can a Pharmacy Institute approved by PCI apply for EoA from AICTE:
Yes.
Can we start new program MCA in existing engineering institutes having already 300 seats:
Yes.
UG Engineering College having sanctioned intake of 300 with 5 courses,can we add new
course with intake 60 by reducing intake of two existing courses by 30 each:
Yes.
Is the TER Charges applicable for reinstatement (restoration) of seats from 30 to 60:
Yes, if reduction is due to punitive action.
Is an PGDM institute get additional 60 seats for this year 2021-22, without NBA:
No (if already having 300 intake).
Is it possible to modify land details? Because the current land norm is less than that was
required at the time of starting of the college,Please allow to modify, so that we can use
Excess Land:
No. However permission will be given to use surplus land to run other educational
institutions (not for coaching / tuition centres, etc).
We are having total intake of 240.we would like to restore the seat of Electrical Branch from
30 to 60,which documents are required? what is the difference between the reinstatement
and restoration of seats:
Re-instatement is used normally to bring back the
reduced intake to original value (Reduced by the institute itself). Restoration normally used
to bring back the reduced intake to original intake (reduced by AICTE due to punitive action).
Whether institute can apply for Emerging Area Course by closing the Exiting course:
Yes,As per the procedure laid down in APH 2021-22.
To start MCA in an existing aided college, Is AICTE approval should be taken first or
University Approval:
AICTE approval,however NOC from affiliating University isrequired at the time of scrutiny,
This year, in the Nomenclature list, a few courses (19 out of 261) are marked with star (*)
mark, indicating these courses as Emerging / Multi-disciplinary areas,Does it mean, we
can choose for new courses only from these 19 courses:
Yes.
We have only traditional courses in B.E. Level and got less admission ie less than 50 %
hence we like to reduce 60 seats of a traditional course from 120 seats to offer Emerging
course with 60 seats,hence request you to relax the condition of minimum 50 % admission
last year for effective utilization of infrastructure:
Not possible,First reduce the intake and improve the enrolment/admissions through quality education.
Regarding New Course addition, our college has four accredited NBA course, without
changing the overall intake of the college, shall we reduce one division in existing course
and shall we able to start new course in Emerging field but available as listed in Emerging
Area course list specified in AICTE Handbook 2021-22:
Yes.
Can we transfer the seats from one course to the other, like 30 seats from MBA(IT) to MCA:
No, But reduction in MBA IT is allowed.
Institution having Autonomous status can apply for grant of approval for ODL:
No,Affiliated institutes are not allowed.
We reduced intake last year in Civil Mech and ECE,Are we eligible to apply for additional
courses in Emerging areas like Artificial intelligence, Data science etc without NBA:
Yes (by reducing seats in some courses / closing some courses), provided enrolment in AY
2019-20 should be more than 50%.
Can we apply for two Management Courses in New College:
Yes, as per the conditions mentioned in APH 2021-22.
For Merger of Institution, who has to apply? Is it the Parent Institution or the Child
Institution:
Parent Institution (Preferably).
Is it mandatory to get the approval from COA for Diploma in Architecture course:
Yes.
What is the procedure to Reduce the Land area? We having enough Land as per norms, is it
possible to reduce it :
Land Area can’t be reduced,however NOC will be issued to eligible institutes for the use of
excess land for running other educational Institutions.
We want to reduce our BTech EEE course intake from 60 to 0:
Please apply on portal.
Can we Increase intake of course from 30 to 60 without NBA? (Our sanctioned intake is
more than 300, old Polytechnic & running 7 courses):
No.
We are a NAAC accredited MBA Institute affiliated to the University of Mumbai. If we wish
to start MBA (IEV) which is one of the Emerging areas, Is it must for us to have NBA
accreditation:
Yes.
We are Autonomous and have NAAC accreditation A+ grade till 2022 pl clarify whether
our TER charges will be waived in case of Extended EOA:
Autonomous Institutes are eligible for Extended EOA, TER Charges will be waived OFF Only
for the eligible institutions as per the provisions of APH 2021-22.
Can we open a new course within approved sanctioned intake without NBA:
Yes, in Emerging area.
Emerging Area courses introduced last year (CSE-AI, CSE-AIML) will continue this year in
addition to * marked course in this year:
Only those courses approved last year and marked with * in this year’s approval process
handbook.
We are an Autonomous Institution, want to apply for ME Programme in CSE (AI&ML) but
this Programme is not offered by the affiliating university Anna University, Can AICTE will
permit us to start the Programme:
NO, It is mandatory to have University NOC plus 50% enrolment.
Can non technical institutions and their students also take part in Student Learning Assessment:
Yes, Provisions are there.

Which are the Modes of the Assessment:
There are two modes of assessment=>1st is Assessment by Institute/School and Other is self Assessment, Assessment by Institute/School is when institute or school assign the assessment to the student within the due course of time, Self Assessment is when a student self wants to evaluate himself.

Can I take Assessment in my Local Language:
Yes, Provisions are available.

How many times can I take the Assessment:
There is NO limit on taking the Assessment. 

What will I get after taking Assessment:
After Completion of the Assessment Student will get an Report which carries levels and gains in academic , aptitude skills & Higher Order Thinking Skills to understand the strength and weakness in his learning

Do I have to pay any money/fees/cost:
No, This Assessment is free of cost. 

What is Assessment:
Assessment is a process of collecting relevant information on student learning.

What are the Goals of AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP):
 a)A major goal of Education systems are to produce skilled graduates by attaining Academic Skills and Higher Order Thinking Skills b) Skilled Graduates can contribute towards productivity and innovation, which will lead to higher economic growth. c) To Fill up the gap between Passed and Placed Students in AICTE Approved Institutions.

To whom I have to contact for more information about AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP):
Please send an email to slaproject@aicte-india.org.

Any age limit for the Assessment test:
No.

Whether it is Only for AICTE Approved Institutions or their Students and Faculties:
No, Even Non-AICTE Approved institute can participate.

What are the Eligibility Criteria of the Assessment test:
For self Assessment, there are no eligibility criteria.

Can this test be free of Cost:Yes.

What is the difference between Assessment by the Institute and Self-Assessment:
Assessment is taken by the Institute/HOD and Faculty within the curriculum while in self-assessment, you can select the subject in which you want to give the assessment along with emerging areas.

How many times I can take the assessment:
Any number of times you can take the self-assessment.

What is the prerequisite information to take AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP):
Any Student/Faculty Associated with Engineering/MBA/MCA Disciplines.

For participation in AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP) whom I have to contact?You have to contact your Institute Nodal Officer or Head of the Department or any faculty who is teaching you and They will assist you with the assessment.

Who can participate in AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP):
Student and Faculties of Technical Institutions can participate in Assessment through AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP).

How I can get more information about AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP):
Visit aslap.aicte-india.org for more information.

Is AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP) a competition:
No, AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP) is an Assessment designed to measure the benchmark levels and gains in academic and aptitude skills by the students.

What the Benefits of AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP):
A Good Assessment Test gives an equal opportunity to fully demonstrate their learning and By taking Assessment through AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP) students will Get better opportunities for suitable employment.

Do I get Placement after doing the Assessment through AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP):
No, Student Learning Assessment Project is to evaluate technical students of India and to assess their overall qualitative and quantitative growth during the study to get suitable employment.

Why AICTE Student learning Assessment Project (ASLAP) is required:
To evaluate technical students of India for their overall qualitative growth during their course of study to get appropriate employment that best suits their capability.

What is AICTE Student learning Assessment Project:
The AICTE-SLA project is designed to measure the benchmark levels and gains in academic and aptitude skills by the students in various technical programs and to understand the various factors that affect the skill development of students in Technical Institutes across India.
Area of land on which AICTE HQ building has been constructed:
Five acres (20,179 Sq Mtr)

What is the permissible/achieved FAR of the HQ building:
The permissible FAR as per sanctioned building plan by the DDA was 120% 
and achieved FAR as per completion plan is Ninety six point eighty three percent.

When was the completion certificate issued:
Completion Certificate has been issued by South Delhi Municipal Corporation 
vide letter no 09/CC/B-2/SZ/2016 dated 04-07-2016.

Permission/Approval of which agencies have been taken for construction 
of building:
Permission/approval from Delhi Fire Service, DUAC, DPCC, Airport Authority 
of India was obtained.

What are the main features of AICTE HQ building:
AICTE HQ building has been constructed by DRDO besides Office block, 
Conference Rooms, Auditorium and Guest House, the building also has Sewage 
Treatment Plant and Water Harvesting System, Rooftop Solar Power unit of 
140 KW + 30 KW, BMS, Central AC unit. Sufficient Green open area has also 
been provided in the building.

How the Guest House booking is done:
Guest House booking is done through Bureau Heads of the AICTE and also 
through Regional Offices of AICTE based on requests for official meetings and 
visits by the Experts. 

Information related to procurement: 
a) Housekeeping and Sanitation work has been awarded to M/s Rakshak 
Securitas Pvt Ltd through open tender
b) 140 KW Rooftop Solar Panel work has been got completed from SECI 
empanelled firm M/s Bharti Waters Pvt Ltd through open invitation to all 
the firms and subsequent selection of the most suitable by the committee.

Where to submit application for Registration as a NEEM Facilitator:
The application for applying under NEEM Scheme is to be submitted by the applicant on the 
AICTE-Portal using the generated username and password provided to login to AICTE Portal.

The Amount that needs to be paid for NEEM:
Facilitator Processing fee is 50,000,in addition to 
this fee of Rs 5000/- is to be paid at the time of registration. 

Processing fee is refundable or not:
Processing fess is non-refundable subject to approval or dis-approval of the application of the 
applicant:

What should be the age group of trainees to be enrolled under NEEM Scheme:
A person seeking training under NEEM shall not more than 40 years of age as on the date of 
registration.

Duration of training under NEEM:
NEEM training shall be for a minimum of 3 months and a maximum of 36 months andthe 
trainings must be NSQF compliant.

Who will provide the training under NEEM:
NEEM training shall provide by a registered Company/Industry as registered with theNEEM 
Facilitator,Suitable MoU needs to be signed between the NEEM Facilitator & associated 
industry partner.

Is giving Aadhar number is mandatory:
Yes, Except for states in North Eastern Region and Jammu & Kashmir State.

If a student enrolled for a course drops in between, can a new student be added:
No,Editing of student’s data is not possible once training is started and Change of name of the 
student will also not be permitted.

Is any grant available for approved NEEM Facilitator:
No grant will be provided to the Facilitator under NEEM.

Is any Stipend available for students:
NEEM Facilitator shall pay all enrolled NEEM trainees a remuneration/stipend which shall be at 
par with the prescribed minimum wages for unskilled category.

Is there any certification after completion of training:
Certificate to the beneficiaries will be provided by the respective NEEM Facilitator.

Does NEEM Scheme and the exemptions under NEEM Scheme fall under the PF and ESI 
Act:
PF and ESI authorities go by their Act which is Statutory and Supreme over all others, AICTE has 
written to PF Commissioner for exempting PF and ESI to NEEM trainees at par with 
Apprenticeship Act, The decision lies with office of the Commissioner and The outcome of the 
decision will be updated when received.

How to make browser settings for AICTE Portal:
Browser settings required for AICTE web portal are available in AICTE website.

I have forgotten password for logging in AICTE Web Portal,what is the procedure to recover this:
Forgot password can be applied through AICTE Website,Within 48 hours new password will be mailed to the 
e-mail id registered with AICTE web portal. No other web page should be opened while applying for forgot password.

Is PAN No field is mandatory for 'Forgot Password' form:
No, PAN Card is not mandatory,Only User Id or any one of the Application Ids is required.

Can I open AICTE web portal in any browser:
No, AICTE Web Portal can be opened in only Internet Explorer Version 8.

When I login with Institute's login details, error message 'Invalid username and password' is displayed,what should I 
do:
Recheck the login credentials, Confirm whether someone else has logged in with the same credentials ,in case issue 
persists you can "Request for forgot password".

How to import student details, faculty details excel file:
Check the required browser settings and instructions as listed in the aicte website.

I have made Online Payment but amount is not updated in portal:
Payment is updated within 48 hours (2 working days),in case it is not updated even after that, please send details of the 
transaction (Transaction Id generated while making the payment) and application to AICTE helpdesk.

I am not able to Edit/Delete wrong attachment in PG Scholarship Step 3:
Edit/Delete facility is not given but new attachment can be uploaded and The latest uploaded document will be 
considered for further processing of the scholarship.

I am not able to download EOA report from AICTE web portal:
Student Enrollment data should be filled before downloading EOA Report,Go to Students Enrollment tab, fill all the 
details of first year students enrolled in different courses in all academic years from 2012-13 to current academic year. 
Click on 'Submit Student Enrollment data' in each academic year,after Student data is successfully submitted, EOA Report 
can be downloaded.

How to delete student record from student details tab:
Student record cannot be deleted,Student can be marked as Duplicate or Left the Institute in 'Student Details' tab.

How to upload attendance for pg students in portal:
Navigate to ‘Block/Unblock’ Student tab. Institute can Block/Unblock a student by selecting the appropriate student 
record and clicking on the ‘BlockStudent’/‘UnblockStudent’ Button.

How to block or unblock student:
Navigate to 'Block/Unblock' Student tab. Institute can Block/Unblock a student by selecting the appropriate student record 
and clicking on the 'BlockStudent'/'UnblockStudent' Button.

In which format should I upload my docs for PG Scholarship:
All documents should be uploaded in pdf format only.

In AQIS tab, new button is not enabling: 
Enter all the details of the bank and click on 'Save Bank Details' and then on 'Confirm Bank Details', Once the bank details 
are confirmed the 'New' button will be enabled.

Can I Edit Bank Details in AQIS after confirming Bank Details:
Yes,Click on 'Edit Bank Details' button then The fields will be become editable,After editing click on save and confirm buttons.

How to get Student Id and Institute Id for applying PG Scholarship:
To obtain Institute Id- Click on 'Get Institute ID', 
to open the pdf of 'List of AICTE approved institutions' To obtain Student Id- Click on 'Get PG Student Id', enter the 
required details and click on 'Get Student Id'.

When I try to submit PG Scholarship application in Step 3, I get an error regarding duplicity of E-mail address, Contact 
No, Aadhar Number:
Only one application should be created and forwarded for processing, Please check whether any other application exists 
for the particular student,in case more than one application exists, Institute should mark Student as a duplicate student in
'Student Details' tab,Contact AICTE helpdesk with the Student Id in case the issue still persists.

How should I apply for PG scholarship in case I have changed my Institution:
The student should be marked as 'Left the Institute' by the Institute and enter the details of new institute. The new institute should login with their credentials in AICTE 
web portal and approve the student,thereafter normal procedure is followed.

I have filled registration form for J&K renewal Scholarshipbut I did not receive user id and password:
Check the inbox and spam mails of e-mail id which was entered during registration,in case user id and password is not 
received, contact J&K Cell.

"Verification awaited by institute" status is coming in Status set by institute field at PG Scholarship Step 3,what should 
I do:
Institute has not verified the details,Contact institute.

Where to send the complaint regarding violation of AICTE norms and 
standards by the AICTE approved institutions:
In this regard, if any person has any specific complaint against AICTE approved Institution 
regarding violation of norms and standards as prescribed in AICTE Approval Process 
Handbook and The complaint may send duly signed hard copy of the same alongwith 
supporting documents/evidence, if any, with complete postal address directly to Dy 
Director, PGR Cell, AICTE Hqrs, Nelson Mandela Marg, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi-110070.

What is the difference between PMKVY & PMKVY-TI:
PMKVY Scheme is run by NSDC and PMKVY-TI by AICTE through its approved 
institutes/Polytechnic.

Where to submit application of PMKVY-TI:
The application for running a course is to be submitted by the Institutions on the 
AICTE-Portal using username and password provided to login to AICTE Portal and The 
students are required to apply to the advertisement for enrolment as and when called 
for by institutions/AICTE.


What is the eligibility criteria of any Institution:
Institutions which are into existence for a minimum period of two years from the date 
of inviting of application for PMKVY are eligible for the scheme.
What should be the age group of students to be enrolled under PMKVY-TI:
There is no age bar for admission under the scheme.

Can Industry be associated in training programme?
The Technical Institution/Polytechnic can tie-up with their Industry partner for 
providing the training.
What are Category – I, II & III in the Guidelines of PMKVY-TI:
Category I, II & III are the sub-sectors of trades provided in Schedule-II of the 
Guidelines which is based on the expenditure on training under the given sector as 
prescribed by MSDC, Govt of India in common norms.

What details for Faculty and Machines are to be given in online application:
Details of Faculty and Machines as available in the Institution for giving training under 
the applied Sector(s)/courses are to be given in online application.

When can a Institute start a course under the PKVY-TI:
The course may be started immediately after the Council upload the list of approved 
institutions and its QPs on website and the institute has to upload the details of students 
in each course approved along with batch start date on AICTE portal.

Is any Stipend available for students/hostel:
No Stipend will be provided to the students,since, the Grant-in-Aid is towards the 
training cost, as such students need not pay any fee for such trainings. 

When to conduct the course in an organization:
Training may be conducted as per the convenience of Institute when regular batch of 
students are not engaged.

Whether security has to be taken from the student:
Security deposit from student is optional limited to maximum amount of Rs 1000/-.
If a student enrolled for a course drops in between, can a new student be added:
No,Editing of student’s data is not possible once training is started and Change of name of 
the student will also not be permitted.

Who will do the assessment and certification:
Assessment and Certification will be done by respective Sector Skill Councils.

Who will pay assessment fees:
Assessment fee is to be paid by Institute to respective Sector Skill Councils for 
assessment, as the certification cost is included in Grant-in-Aid released under the 
scheme.

How to submit claim for 1st Instalment of Grant:
1st instalment of grant will be released after submitting details of enrolled students 
for the selected Sector on AICTE Portal.

When will the 2nd Instalment be released:
AThe second instalment will be released on uploading/submitting the Utilization 
Certificate (UC) in prescribed format and updating the continuing students’ details on 
AICTE portal.

Is giving Aadhar number is mandatory: 
Yes,Except for states in North Eastern Region and Jammu & Kashmir State and The same 
is to utilized for biometric attendance also.

Which curriculum to be followed for training:
The curriculum which is developed by respective Sector Skill Councils and The curriculum 
is available on the respective SSC website.

Is it mandatory to submit Mandate Form:
Mandate form is mandatory in Institute Attachments to process the release of funds 
under PMKVY-TI.

Is taking Attendance of the student is compulsory:
As per the instruction issued by the Ministry of HRD, bio-matric attendance of the 
students is compulsory as per the PMKVY-TI Scheme.

What is the maximum batch size to start the course: 
The minimum batch size permitted by the Council is 10 students to start the course.

What type of Expenditure can be booked for the Course:
The institute can book the expenditure only on the heads as given in the Guidelines. 
Expenditure on account transportation of student, tiffin allowance, procurement of 
Capital items are not admissible.

What is the eligibility criteria of the student:
The minimum qualification to be eligible for each course is available along with the 
courses offered under the Scheme.

What is the eligibility criteria of any Institution for applying under Vocational 
courses:
Only AICTE approved Institutions are eligible to apply,Institution willing to run these 
Courses should have AICTE approval in relevant area.

Where to submit application for Vocational courses:
The application is to be submitted by the Institutions on the AICTE-Portal using 
username and password provided to login to AICTE Portal.

What should be the age group of students to be enrolled under PMKVY-TI:
There is no age bar for admission under the scheme.

What is the role of Industries under this programme:
Education component will be taught by the institute and the skill component will be 
covered by SKP/ Training Provider/ Industry Partner approved by NSDC or Govt
Agency.

What is the eligibility criteria of any Institution:
These courses may be affiliated with existing University or any Skill University/ 
National University having jurisdiction for affiliation.

Who will do the assessment and certification:
University/Board will conduct examination for Education Component, SKP/Training 
Provider will do assessment for skill competency.

What will be the procedure for credit calculation:
Credit calculation and certification will be as per SAMVAY, the skill credit framework 
notified by MHRD.

Which curriculum to be followed for these courses:
Curriculum for such courses will be as prescribed by Board of Technical Education/ 
University of respective state and Model curriculum is given by AICTE.

What is the maximum batch size to start the course: 
In the AY 2018-19 institute can apply upto 100 seats from given specialization, with a 
division size of 25 each, Institute may choose one specialization with 04 division OR 04 
specializations with 01 division of each specialization OR any other similar 
combination.

What is the eligibility criteria of the student:
The minimum qualification to be eligible for each course is available along with the 
courses offered at the aicte website.

Can any Institute apply for SKP:
AICTE approved Institutes cannot apply for SKP.

Is Security Deposit of Rs. 5 Lakh to be 
deposited every year:
It is a one time deposit and Same will be refunded when withdrawing the registration. 

Who can apply for SKP:
Any company into training for sector under NSQF can apply for SKP.

When SKP meeting is held:
The meeting is held quarterly. 

What is SWAYAM:
SWAYAM is an  indigenous developed IT platform, initiated by 
Government of India, which is instrumental 
for self-actualisation providing opportunities 
for a life-long learning.

For which standard & discipline, the 
Courses shall be delivered through 
SWAYAM:
The SWAYAM shall facilitate hosting of all the 
courses, taught in classrooms from 9th class 
till post-graduation and hundreds of courses 
covering virtually every course that is taught 
at the university/college/school level and 
these shall be offered by best of the teachers 
in India  and The curriculum based course 
contents shall also cover diverse disciplines 
such as arts, science, commerce, performing 
arts, social sciences and humanities subjects, 
engineering, technology, law, medicine, 
agriculture etc. in higher education domain.

Can any person in the world register a 
Course on SWAYAM:
Yes, any person in the world can register a 
Course on SWAYAM.

What Courses are planned & who can 
deliver the MOOCs on SWAYAM:
Learner can choose from hundreds of 
courses, virtually every course that is taught at 
the university/college/school level and these 
shall be offered by best of the teachers in India 
and elsewhere and More than 1,000 specially 
chosen teachers and lecturers from across the 
Country have participated in preparing these 
courses.

Who shall produce & deliver the 
MOOCs on SWAYAM:
MHRD has appointed nine National 
Coordinators viz UGC, NPTEL, CEC, IGNOU, 
NCERT, NIOS, IIMB, NITTTR & AICTE which 
have been assigned a specific sector for 
preparation of online courses for SWAYAM.

What is the Format / Pedagogy of 
MOOCs production:
The courses hosted on SWAYAM will be in 4 
quadrants – (1) video lecture with multimedia, 
(2) specially prepared reading material that 
can be downloaded/printed (3) self￾assessment tests through tests and quizzes 
and (4) an online discussion forum for clearing 
the doubts,Steps have been taken to enrich 
the learning experience by using audio-video 
& multi-media and state of the art 
pedagogy/technology.

Are the Courses on SWAYAM going to 
be on charge basis:
The courses delivered through SWAYAM are 
available free of cost to the learners, however 
students wanting certifications shall be 
registered and offered a certificate on 
successful completion of the course, with a 
little fee and  At the end of each course, there will 
be an assessment of the student through 
proctored examination and the marks/grades 
secured in this exam could be transferred to 
the academic record of the students and UGC has 
already issued.

Will a Learner earn Credits & certificate 
after going through the MOOCs on 
SWAYAM:
The courses delivered through SWAYAM are 
accessible by any learner free of cost,however student having registered a course, 
having submitting the Assignments as per 
requirements of the course, shall at the end of 
each course, be assessed through a proctored 
examination and A student having successfully 
completed the course shall get a Certificate 
that shall be issued by Host Institute, The 
marks/grades secured in this proctored 
examination could be transferred to the 
academic record of the students from Host 
Institute.

Has the Government issued any policy 
regarding transfer of credits earned by 
a student through MOOCs on 
SWAYAM:
UGC has already issued the UGC (Credit 
Framework for online learning courses 
through SWAYAM) Regulation 2016 advising 
the Universities to identify courses where 
credits can be transferred on to the academic 
record of the students for courses done on 
SWAYAM.

Is the SWAYAM a ‘New Plan’ proposal 
not included in the current Plan 
period:
The proposal is continuing scheme from the 
past Plan periods,It continues the work 
started under the NME-ICT programme and 
creates the IT platform for hosting the MOOCs 
content.
 
What is the genesis of launching the 
SWAYAM:
In order to improve Gross Enrollment Ratio 
(GER), from 20% at present to 30% by 2020; 
Government of India has felt that 
conventional mode of education shall alone 
not be sufficient to achieve this goal and has 
decided to utilise ICT in a big way, in 
education.

Will the Courses launched on SWAYAM 
address the issues concerning shortage 
& quality of Teachers:
To address the issue that quality teachers are 
not available in central, state and private 
universities/institutes in the country, besides 
a large number of such institutes have a 
number of vacancies of academicians not 
being filled since long; Ministry of HRD, has 
embarked on a major and new initiative called 
SWAYAM, which will provide one integrated 
platform and portal for online courses, using 
information and communication technology 
and covering all higher education subjects and 
skill sector courses to ensure that the every 
student in our country has access to the best 
quality of higher education at the affordable 
cost to all students across the country 
irrespective of geographical barriers.

Has Government embarked upon an 
ICT Programme in the Past:
The Cabinet Committee on Economics Affairs 
(CCEA) on January 2, 2009 has approved 
‘National Mission on Education through 
Information & Communication Technology’ 
(NMEICT), a Centrally Sponsored Scheme, 
with an outlay of 4612 Crores, to leverage the 
potential of ICT for all learners in Higher 
Education Institutions in any- time, any￾where mode and Through this mission it is intend 
to achieve composite goals of ensuring access 
with equity and excellence in higher Education 
and bridging the digital divide that exist in our 
society today.

Has MHRD had any experience in 
developing similar material:
Through NMEICT, massive effort has been 
launched to create e-Content for all courses 
starting from Under Graduation to Post -
Graduation. NPTEL (for engineering), UGC (for 
non-engineering, post-graduation), CEC (for 
non-engineering graduation), NIOS (for school 
level),Most of this content is electronic, but 
does not have the specifications of MOOCs, 
which an interactive system and This content 
needs to be repurposed into MOOCs 
pedagogy Similarly, more content needs to be 
created to ensure that all courses from the 
School to PG level are available in the MOOCs 
format. Under NMEICT, NPTEL (a group of 7 
IITs & IISc) has developed e-content in 23 
Disciplines numbering 933 Courses, CEC has 
developed e-content in 20 Undergraduate 
Subjects and shall further be completing e￾content in 57 Subjects in four quadrants, 
further, UGC is completing e-content in 77 
Post Graduation subjects, similarly other 
institutes are engaged in development of e￾content.

Is SWAYAM a part of Digital India 
Programme:
As per ‘Digital India’ Initiative; Government of 
India is emphasising on the use of ICT for 
education in a big way and Ministry of HRD, has 
accordingly embarked on a major and new 
initiative called SWAYAM, which will provide 
one integrated platform and portal for online 
courses, using information and 
communication technology and covering all 
higher education subjects and skill sector 
courses to 
ensurethattheeverystudentinourcountryhasa
ccesstothebestqualityofhigher education at
the affordable cost.

What are the Objectives of SWAYAM 
schemes:
Major objectives of the proposal are as 
follows: i) Creation of content on courses from 
School Secondary level till Post Graduation, 
covering all disciplines, to be made available 
on the SWAYAM platform ii) Repurposing of 
e-content courses already developed under 
NMEICT to fit into SWAYAM Pedagogy / 
Andragogy iii)Develop India MOOCs platform 
named as SWAYAM iv)Provide robust Internet 
Cloud (with CDN) and sufficient bandwidth for 
concurrent viewings of 1 Million users v)
Conduct of examination and award of 
certificates to participants having successfully 
completed the course vi)Provide 
recommendations to Institutions regarding 
implementation of Choice Based Credit 
System (CBCS) on SWAYAM Courses.

Targets to be achieved through 
SWAYAM:
The specific target proposed is addressed to 
the needs of students studying in Universities, 
Colleges and CFIs and the learners in the 
Country.

What are the outcomes of the 
SWAYAM:
The anticipated outcomes of SWAYAM are:
Creation of fresh content on 600 courses from 
Secondary to all levels of Higher Education, in 
all disciplines ii) Repurposing of e-content 
courses numbering 1400 already developed 
under NMEICT to fit into SWAYAM Pedagogy / 
Andragogy iii) Develop India MOOCs platform 
named as SWAYAM for hosting 
and running about 2000 courses and 
repeating it three times during a year iv) 
Provide robust Internet Cloud (with CDN) and 
sufficient bandwidth for concurrent viewings 
of 1 Million users v)Conduct of examination 
and award of certificates to participants 
having successfully completed the course vi) 
Provide recommendations to Institutions 
regarding implementation of Choice Based 
Credit System (CBCS) on SWAYAM Courses.

What is the Scope of the SWAYAM 
project:
Scope of SWAYAM programme shall be: 1) 
Curriculum based course contents covering 
diverse disciplines such as arts, science, 
commerce, performing arts, social sciences 
and humanities subjects, engineering, 
technology, law, medicine, agriculture etc   in 
higher education domain 2)School education (9-12 levels) 
modules and teacher training as well as 
teaching and learning aids to children of India 
to help them learn subjects for better 
preparedness for competitive examinations 
for admissions to professional degree 
programmes 3)Skill based courses which 
cover both post-higher secondary school skills 
that are presently the domain of polytechnics 
as well as industrial skills certified by the 
sector skill councils of various Ministries 4)
Advanced curriculum and professional 
certification under a unified scheme in higher 
education domain that can be tailored to 
meet the demands of choice based credit 
system (CBCS) currently being implemented in 
India 5)Curricula and courses that can meet 
the needs of life-long learners of Indian 
citizens in India and abroad and All course 
contents will have clear and designated 
outcomes for learners and follow a suitable 
pedagogy (child learning) or andragogy (adult 
learning) and will provide model curricula in 
respective branches for Universities and 
institutions to adopt.

How many courses are expected to be 
launched:
In the first instance upto 247 MOOCs as under 
are expected to be launched, by the six 
National MOOCs Coordinators (NMCs):-
NPTEL,UGC,CEC,IGNOU,NCERT,NIOS.

Are Skill based courses also to be 
covered under SWAYAM:
The SWAYAM shall also cover Skill based 
courses, which cover both post-higher 
secondary school skills that are presently the 
domain of polytechnics as well as industrial 
skills certified by the sector skill councils of 
various Ministries.

Has the Ministry issued any Guidelines 
on the preparation of MOOCs:
The Ministry vide notification dated 11th 
March 2016 has issued ‘Guidelines for 
Development and Implementation of Massive 
Open Online Courses (MOOCs)’, that instructs 
on the: Definitions; Engagement of National 
Coordinators; Scope of SWAYAM; Awarding 
the Courses; Process Leading to development 
of e-Content; Technical specification for 
Content Development; Responsibilities of 
Subject Matter Experts; Responsibilities of 
Multimedia Lab; Repurposing the e-Content; 
Features of MOOCs Compliant e-Content; 
Instructional systems for Design of MOOCs; 
Financing the MOOCs; Quality Assurance; 
Intellectual Property Rights; Assessment & 
Certification, etc.

Does the Ministry provide funding for 
development of MOOCs to the 
Institutions:
The Ministry provides funding for creation of 
MOOCs (a) fresh MOOCs Compliant e-content 
and (b) for repurposing e-contents to MOOCs 
Compliant Contents, as per the 4-quadrant 
approach, defined in the MOOCs Guideline, 
The PIs/SMEs are also paid honorarium, for 
preparation of the content and for running the 
Course. Besides funds are also paid for 
engaging Teaching Assistances, Course 
Reviewers, conduct of Workshops and Human 
Resource Support.

What are sailent features on transfer of 
Credits earned through SWAYAM by a 
student to the Institute where the 
student is studying:
The University Grants Commission in exercise 
of the powers conferred by clause(f) and (g) of 
sub-section(1) of Section 26 of the UGC Act 
1956(No 3 of 1956), has in its 515 the Meeting 
held on 20th May 2016 approved the ‘Credit 
Framework for online learning courses 
through SWAYAM) Regulation 2016 and It states: 
The parent Institution shall give the 
equivalent credit weightage to the students 
for the credits earned through online learning 
courses through SWAYAM platform in the 
credit plan of the program,No university shall 
refuse any student for credit mobility for the 
courses learned through MOOCs and The 
SWAYAM shall notify to the Registrars of all 
the Institutions & the Institutions shall, 
consider through their Competent Authority, 
the online learning courses being offered 
through the SWAYAM platform; and keeping 
in view their academic requirements, decide 
upon the courses which it shall permit for 
credit transfer. Provided that an Institution 
can only allow up to 20% of the total courses 
being offered in a particular program in a 
Semester through the online learning courses 
provided through SWAYAM platform.

How can I register on Swayam:
Go to and click "Register as Student" to 
register yourself.

What are the required info for 
registering on Swayam:
Your Name, Email ID are essential information 
for registration process on SWAYAM platform.

Can I signup using facebook or google 
account:
Yes you can.

How would I know that my account is 
verified, Will I receive an email 
notification:
Yes, you will be receiving email notification 
from support at swayam.

I forgot my login password,is there any 
provision to reset my password:
Click "forgot password" option and follow 
steps to retrieve/recreate your password.

Can a learner see the last login 
information on Swayam portal:
Yes, the last login information will be visible to 
the learner at the top right corner of the 
screen under his/her username.

How can I search a course on Swayam:
You can search with your own keywords or 
you can choose categories listed on 
Swayam.gov.

How can I select a course on Swayam:
After you have search a category or a 
keyword, a list of courses will appear and You may 
click the course-title of the course that you 
find suitable, detailed course-page of that 
course would appear then You may enrol yourself 
on the course-page itself.

How can I know which course will be 
suitable to enroll into:
Course-page would have the detailed 
information about the eligibility and other 
information.

Are the courses on Swayam portal free 
or paid:
All courses on Swayam are Free, however, 
there will be prescribed fees for appearing the 
Exam for respective course (MOOC).

Can I search category wise courses on 
Swayam?
Yes, you can.

Can I search a course on a specific 
topic:
Yes, you can search a course on a specific 
topic.

Can I search and find a course from any 
specific University:
You can go to the specific University/Institute 
page and search the courses being offered by 
those Institute/University.

Can I search highly recommended 
courses or courses with best reviews in 
Swayam portal:
Yes.

Where can a learner find, course 
syllabus & details of course credit:
The learner will be able to find the syllabus & 
course credit details on the course detail page.

Where can a learner find, course 
syllabus & details of course credit:
The learner will be able to find the syllabus & 
course credit details on the course detail page.

1. How to find out the eligibilities for the 
courses:
In the Course-page, all the details of the 
eligibility are mentioned.

Can I enroll into multiple courses once 
I got myself registered with Swayam 
portal:
Yes, you can enroll in multiple course 
(MOOCs) on Swayam after registration.

Is there any time limit or deadline to 
the courses where I am enrolled:
For participation in a course which is a 
scheduled course, students cannot enroll 
after the course is started and  For a Self-paced 
course there is no deadline.

When can I enroll into the course:
You can enrol in a self-paced course at any 
time of your choosing,Scheduled courses 
support student enrolment from 60 days 
before the course is scheduled to start.

Once you get enrolled into the course 
you need to go to the course schedule 
to access all the course material 
assigned by the faculty:
Once you get enrolled into the course you 
need to go to the course schedule to access all 
the course material assigned by the faculty.

Do I have to watch all the videos in the 
course to earn credit:
Yes, completion of the course includes 
watching of the videos and going through the 
course materials.

Can I also access the content offline in 
case my internet is not working:
No, you need an active internet connection to 
access your content on swayam portal.

Can I submit my assignments online:
Yes, It can be done!

I am not able to access my content 
within the course, What could be the 
reason:
Please check if your internet connection is 
working and refresh your computer screen.

While accessing video content, I was 
unable to hear any sound, Why it is so:
Please check your system audio if it is working 
fine.

Does learners have an option where 
they can track all their recent 
activities:
Yes, learners post login will be able to see a 
complete Dashboard on their screen which 
will include their learner calendar, recent 
conversations, courses, Due assignments & 
Tests etc.

Is Pre-Survey form mandatory to the 
course learners:
Yes. The learner will not be able to access 
course schedule, assignment, content etc. till 
the time learner do not submits the pre￾course survey.

What will happen if the learner tries to 
access the courseware without 
submitting the survey:
The system will redirect the learner to fill & 
complete the survey form first.

When does a learner becomes eligible 
to take a post course survey:
A learner becomes eligible for a post course 
survey only when s/he has met the 
completion criteria of the course.

What different activities can a learner 
do within a discussion forum:
There are three levels threaded discussions 
which can be used by the learners to post in 
the discussion forum and There can be multiple 
discussion topics which can be initiated by any 
one of the learners who are already enrolled 
in the course,Each discuss on topic can have 
multiple responses and each response can 
have multiple comments.

Can a learner switch between an open 
discussion and a group discussion of his 
own:
Yes, Learner has the privilege to switch 
between the open and group discussion, 
provided that learner is a part of specific 
group discussion, otherwise learner will only 
be able to send messages in an open 
discussion.

Where all can a learner find the ‘article’ 
feature in their login Id:
Articles will be available for learners to 
consume as a part of course content. Articles 
will also be available in the learner’s course 
calendar.
How can a learner play the closed
caption while watching the video:
Learner will see the CC option once they play 
the video, and can choose the language of 
their choice.

How will a learner come to know that 
s/he has successfully completed the 
course:
The learner can see the completion status on 
the My courses listing page as shown in the 
below image and The learner can also take the 
post course survey if the same has been 
uploaded by the Instructor on a particular 
course.

How will the student know that a 
particular content is mandatory for 
course completion:
Within the course schedule, corresponding to 
every mandatory content, there will be an 
‘encircled I’ icon displayed,if the student will 
hover the cursor over that icon, then student 
will be able to see message saying ‘this activity 
counts towards course completion.

How can learners get the course 
participation certificate once 
everything has been consumed from 
their end:
Once all requirements are met and the Post 
Course survey is taken, a link to download the 
Course Participation certificate will be 
displayed on the My Courses listing page.

Is there a mechanism for me to submit 
a grievance I might have:
Yes, After logging onto your learner account 
in Swayam, you can click on the “Grievances” 
link in the footer of the page to access your 
personal Grievances page, On this page, you 
will see a list of the grievances you might 
have submitted, with associated details and  You 
will also see an option to submit a new 
grievance and 
You can file a grievance under the following 
heads 
1.Against Registrar (Accepting)
2. Against Registrar (Receiving)
3. Against course coordinator
4. Against teaching assistant
5. Against course content
6. Against fellow student
7. Against Swayam platform
8. Other.

Can I cancel a grievance I submitted:
Yes, you can Just visit your grievances page, 
select the grievance you want to cancel, and 
you will see the option to cancel it and Grievance 
that have already been addressed cannot be 
cancelled.

Can I send a message directly to the 
course coordinator of a course I am 
enrolled in:
Yes, you can,You will have access to an inbox 
on your Course page on the left pane. From 
this page you can compose and send a 
message that will directly reach your course 
coordinator and  You can see responses from the 
course coordinator on this page, and choose 
to reply as well.

How can I attend a Live Class:
Just click on the Live Class, either from your 
learner calendar or from the course schedule 
page. When it is time for the class, the 
instructor will start it and you can take part in 
it,Just make sure that you allow the Flash 
plugin to access your audio and video. Your 
attendance will be marked automatically.

Do I need to mark my attendance for 
live classes:
Your attendance will be marked 
automatically.

Do I need a dedicated internet 
connection:
You would need an active internet connection 
to consume course contents.

I can consume course 
contents offline once logged in:
You would need an active internet connection 
to consume course contents.

What are my system requirements to 
login in to the swayam portal:
Following are the system requirements: 1) 
Laptop/Desktop with stable internet 
connection 2) Latest flash player should be 
installed in your computer 3) Operating 
system: Mac iOS, Microsoft Windows, 
Android, Linux  4) Browser: Internet Explorer, 
Chrome*, Safari, Firefox, Opera. 5) Port 1935 
RTMP or Port 80 should be open.

Can I also download my content for 
offline access:
Yes provided faculty has given the download 
access to the students.

How can I send personal message to 
faculty:
You can find the option to send personal 
message to the faculty on the Course-page 
after you are enrolled, under the option of 
Overview.

Will I receive notification emails when 
new post is added:
Yes.

Where can I start a discussion for a 
particular topic:
In the "Activity" feed inside courses.

Will it be visible to all the students 
enrolled in that course:
Yes, Since it is an open forum.

Will I be able to see other students as 
well who are participating in the 
course:
Yes.
Can I change the start date of my 
course:
Yes, you can change the start date of your 
course. Please follow the steps:- 1) Login to 
the Swayam portal with your registered id  2) 
Go to the course for which you want to change 
the start date 3) Click on the course settings 
icon available on the right hand side of the 
course page  4) Select the Change Start Date 
option and set the new date for your course.

Can a learner see the maximum marks 
which are attached to each 
assignment:
Yes.

How can a learner keep track of the 
assignments:
The learners have a separate assignment 
details page within the course from which 
they can access all assignments and see 
pertinent data such as due date, date 
submitted, maximum marks, marks obtained, 
and grade obtained.

What kind of training is to be provided by SKP: 
NSQF Complaint is to be provided.

I am an Eligible Candidate for Pragati Scholarship. How Can I apply for this scholarship:
The candidate fulfilling the eligibility conditions is required to apply online on National 
Scholarship Portal (NSP) after initiation of application process and notice to be published on 
AICTE website.

I am an Eligible Candidate for both Pragati and Saksham Scholarships,can I apply for both the 
scholarships:
No, you can apply under one scheme only for Scholarship.

Is AADHAAR Card a Mandatory Document for Pragati Scholarship:
Yes,Aadhaar card and Aadhaar seeded bank account in the name of candidate is mandatory for 
submitting online application under Pragati scheme.

Which Web Browser should be used to open the Online Application for Pragati Scholarship:
Any of the existing web browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla, Chrome, etc., may be used.

Do I need to upload any Scanned Documents at NSP Portal, when I apply online for Scholarship:
YES,As per the requirement of National Scholarship Portal (NSP).

What format and size of Photograph and Signature to be uploaded in portal through online 
application for Pragati Scholarship:
As per the requirement of National Scholarship Portal (NSP).

Is there any User Manual/Instructions available on AICTE Website to guide the candidate to Apply 
Online for Pragati Scholarship:
Instructions for filling online application through NSP are available in NSP website.

Is there any E-mail (or) Helpline No for Pragati Scholarship Queries?
YES,You can avail helpline services on helpdesk  for any queries.

Is it compulsory for me to apply online through National Scholarship Portal (NSP) for claiming 
Scholarship under Pragati:
Yes. 

Whom to contact in case of any difficulties in accessing the Portal for submitting Online 
Application:
You can avail Helpdesk Service on helpdesk for any queries.

Is there any reservation for SC/ST/OBC Students? What is percentage of Reservation for 
SC/ST/OBC Students?
As per Government of India norms. 
 
Whether scholarship will be disbursed though College/Institute:
No Scholarship will be disbursed only through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) directly in the bank 
account of the student by AICTE,Student must have General Saving Account in the bank 
(FRILL/Minor/Joint account will not be accepted),They must upload the bank mandate form 
verified by bank.

I am a Diploma passed candidate and taken admission for second year BE/BTech under lateral 
entry scheme in AICTE Approved Institution,am I eligible to apply for Scholarship either under 
Pragati Scheme:
Yes, you are eligible to apply under Pragati Scholarship scheme.

I am first year Degree/Diploma student and recipient of one of the leading merit scholarships of 
State Government,am I eligible to apply for Pragati Scholarship:
NO,Students who are already in receipt of any of the scholarships (either State or Central 
Government Sponsored), are not eligible to apply for Pragati Scholarships. 

I am first year BE student along with beneficiary of PMSSS Scheme studying in one of the leading 
Engineering College having eligibility for Pragati scholarship,am I eligible to apply for Pragati
Scholarship:
No,You are not eligible, since you are already in receipt of one of Scholarships of Government of 
India implemented by AICTE.

Eligibility of scholarship when a candidate failed/ drops out in subsequent year:
If a candidate failed/ drop out in subsequent year, she will not be eligible for further 
scholarship.

Procedure for renewal of Scholarship under Pragati Schemes:
The scholarship will be renewed for the next year of study on receipt of renewal through National 
Scholarship Portal (NSP) by submitting promotion certificate on the letter head issued by the 
Head of Institution.

What is the opening and closing date for online submission of Pragati Scholarship application:
Please refer to NSP portal for further updates.

Whom to contact after submission of online scholarship application:
After submission of online scholarship application, students are advised to check all the 
credentials properly, If found something wrong, immediately contact her institute for rectifying 
the same also Beside this you are also advised to request your Institute to verify and forward the 
application.

What is the Scholarship amount for each Student and Number of Scholarships available under 
Pragati Scholarship Scheme:
Please refer the scheme guidelines.

What are the reasons of direct rejection of application under Pragati Scheme:
Followings may be the reasons
1)Student is admitted in Non-Technical courses or Course is not approved by AICTE
2)Institute/College is not approved by the AICTE
3)Incomplete/Wrong information filled in submitted application
4)Student admitted in duel degree courses
5)Student is availing scholarship from any other sources
6)Student admitted in Post-graduate courses

Is copy of online result valid in place of original mark sheet under Pragati scheme:
Yes, Mark sheet should be verified by the concerned Principal/Director of the institution.

Is Ration Card valid (BPL) for annual family income certificate (For Andhra Pradesh Students):
Yes,Ration Card should be issued in the current financial year only.

What are the reasons of rejection of annual family income certificate:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)If out dated annual family income certificate submitted
2)If annual family income certificate submitted on the AICTE prescribed format but 
submitted without stamp of the competent authority
3)If out dated Ration Card (BPL) is submitted for annual family income certificate.
4)Annual family income certificate is not in the name of applicant or any his/her family 
member
5)Submitted Annual family income certificate issued by other than competent authority 
(Tehshildar, Magistrate, Revenue officer/Block Development officer etc)
6)Annual family income certificate submitted without signature/stamp of the competent 
authority.

What are the reasons of rejection of parent’s declaration:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)If parent’s declaration is submitted without signature of parents
2)Incomplete/blank prescribed format attached/submitted
3)Parents declaration is signed by other than parents or guardian

What are the reasons of rejection of promotion certificate:
Followings may be the reasons
1)Incomplete or blank promotion certificate submitted
2)Promotion certificate submitted without college’s stamp or signature of the
Principal/Director

What are the reasons of rejection of Aadhar Card:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)Other’s Aadhar card submitted (ie mother’s, father’s etc) in place of applicant
2)Aadhar card password protected
3)Aadhar card not accessible
4)Any other document attached in place of Aadhar card

What are the reasons of rejection of Bank Pass Book:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)If copy of bank passbook is not in the name of applicant
2)Bank account is not a general basic bank account

What are the reasons of rejection of Certificate Issued by the Director/Principal/HOD:
Followings may be the reasons
1)Incomplete information filled by the applicant
2)Study certificate submitted without college stamp, signature of the principal/director
3)Any other document placed in place of study certificate
What are the reasons of rejection of Caste Certificate:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)Caste certificate is not in the name of applicant
2)Irrelevant document attached in place of caste certificate
3)Copy of caste certificate is blurred
4)Wrong caste category certificate uploaded is student mentioned in application that he 
belongs to SC but caste certificate submitted of OBC.

What are the reasons of rejection of HSC/SSC certificate:
Followings may be the reasons
1)Copy of HSC/SSC certificate is blurred
2)Copy of HSC/SSC certificate is not accessible
3)Copy of HSC/SSC is not in the name of applicant
4)Copy of online result of HSC/SSC downloaded from the internet and not verified by the 
Principal/Director of the institution 
5)Irrelevant Document attached in place of HSC/SSC.

What are the different documents to be uploaded with the application form:
Followings are the documents to be uploaded
1)Copy of SSC/10th certificate
2)Copy of HSC/12th certificate (In case of Degree level)
3)Copy of ITI certificate (In case of Lateral Entry for Diploma level)
4)Copy of Diploma certificate (In case of Lateral Entry for Degree level)
5)Bank Passbook
Caste Certificate 
6)Aadhar Card
7)Study Certificate 
8)Annual Family Income Certificate 
9)Parent’s Declaration 
10)Bank Mandate Form .

I am an Eligible Candidate for Saksham Scholarship,how Can I apply for this scholarship:
The candidate fulfilling the eligibility conditions is required to apply online on National 
Scholarship Portal (NSP) after initiation of application process and notice to be published on 
AICTE website.

I am an Eligible Candidate for both Pragati and Saksham Scholarships,can I apply for both the 
scholarships:
No, you can apply under one scheme only for Scholarship.

Is AADHAAR Card a Mandatory Document for Saksham Scholarship:
Yes,Aadhaar card and Aadhaar seeded bank account in the name of candidate is mandatory for 
submitting online application under Saksham scheme.

Which Web Browser should be used to open the Online Application for Saksham Scholarship:
Any of the existing web browsers like Internet Explorer, Mozilla, Chrome, etc, may be used.

Do I need to upload any Scanned Documents at NSP Portal, when I apply online for Scholarship:
YES,As per the requirement of National Scholarship Portal (NSP).

What format and size of Photograph and Signature to be uploaded in portal through online 
application for Saksham Scholarship:
As per the requirement of National Scholarship Portal (NSP).

Is there any User Manual/Instructions available on AICTE Website to guide the candidate to Apply 
Online for Saksham Scholarship:
Instructions for filling online application through NSP are available in NSP website.

Is there any E-mail (or) Helpline No for Saksham Scholarship Queries:
YES,You can avail helpline services on helpdesk for any queries.

Is it compulsory for me to apply online through National Scholarship Portal (NSP) for claiming 
Scholarship under Saksham:
Yes. 

Whom to contact in case of any difficulties in accessing the Portal for submitting Online 
Application:
You can avail Helpdesk Service on helpdesk@nsp in for any queries.

Is there any reservation for SC/ST/OBC Students?What is percentage of Reservation for 
SC/ST/OBC Students:
Not applicable as Saksham Scholarship is for all eligible students.
 
Whether scholarship will be disbursed though College/Institute:
No,Scholarship will be disbursed only through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) directly in the bank 
account of the student by AICTE,Student must have General Saving Account in the bank 
(FRILL/Minor/Joint account will not be accepted) and They must upload the bank mandate form 
verified by bank.

I am a Diploma passed candidate and taken admission for second year BE/BTech under lateral 
entry scheme in AICTE Approved Institution,am I eligible to apply for Scholarship either under 
SAKSHAM Scheme:
Yes, you are eligible to apply under Saksham Scholarship scheme.

I am first year Degree/Diploma student and recipient of one of the leading merit scholarships of 
State Government,am I eligible to apply for Saksham Scholarship:
NO,Students who are already in receipt of any of the scholarships (either State or Central 
Government Sponsored), are not eligible to apply for Saksham Scholarships. 

I am first year BE student along with beneficiary of PMSSS Scheme studying in one of the leading 
Engineering College having eligibility for Saksham scholarship,am I eligible to apply for Saksham
Scholarship:
NO,You are not eligible, since you are already in receipt of one of Scholarships of Government of 
India implemented by AICTE.

Is there any restriction of seats for the institutes in a state/UT:
Not applicable as Saksham Scholarship is for all eligible students.

Eligibility of scholarship when a candidate failed/ drops out in subsequent year:
If a candidate failed/ drop out in subsequent year, she will not be eligible for further 
scholarship.

Procedure for renewal of Scholarship under Saksham Schemes:
The scholarship will be renewed for the next year of study on receipt of renewal through National 
Scholarship Portal (NSP) by submitting promotion certificate on the letter head issued by the 
Head of Institution.

What is the opening and closing date for online submission of Saksham Scholarship application:
Please refer to NSP portal for further updates.

Whom to contact after submission of online scholarship application:
After submission of online scholarship application, students are advised to check all the 
credentials properly,If found something wrong, immediately contact his/her institute for 
rectifying the same beside this you are also advised to request your Institute to verify and 
forward the application.

What is the Scholarship amount for each Student and Number of Scholarships available under 
Saksham Scholarship Scheme:
Scholarship amount – Rs 50,000/- per student per annum,
No. of Scholarship – No limit/restriction.

What are the reasons of direct rejection of application under Saksham Scheme:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)Having disability less than 40%
2)Student is admitted in Non-Technical courses or Course is not approved by AICTE
3)Institute/College is not approved by the AICTE
4)Incomplete/Wrong information filled in submitted applicatio
5)Student admitted in duel degree courses
6)Student is availing scholarship from any other sources
7)Student admitted in Post-graduate courses.

Is copy of online result valid in place of original mark sheet under Saksham scheme:
Yes, Mark sheet should be verified by the concerned Principal/Director of the institution.

Is Ration Card valid (BPL) for annual family income certificate (eg Andhra Pradesh):
Yes,Ration Card should be issued in the current financial year only.

What are the reasons of rejection of annual family income certificate:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)If out dated annual family income certificate submitted
2)If annual family income certificate submitted on the AICTE prescribed format but 
submitted without stamp of the competent authority
3)If out dated Ration Card (BPL) is submitted for annual family income certificate
4)Annual family income certificate is not in the name of applicant or any his/her family 
member
5)Submitted Annual family income certificate issued by other than competent authority 
(Tehshildar, Magistrate, Revenue officer/Block Development officer etc)
6)Annual family income certificate submitted without signature/stamp of the competent 
authority

What are the reasons of rejection of parent’s declaration:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)If parent’s declaration submitted without signature of parents
2)Incomplete/blank prescribed format attached/submitted
3)Parents declaration signed by other than parents or guardian.

What are the reasons of rejection of promotion certificate:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)Incomplete or blank promotion certificate submitted
2)Promotion certificate submitted without college’s stamp or signature of the 
principal/Director.

What are the reasons of rejection of Aadhar Card:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)Other’s Aadhar card submitted (ie mother’s, father’s etc)in place of applicant
2)Aadhar card password protected
3)Aadhar card not accessibl
4)Any other document attached in place of Aadhar card.

What are the reasons of rejection of Bank Pass Book:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)If copy of bank passbook is not in the name of applicant
2)Bank account is not a general basic bank account.
What are the reasons of rejection of Certificate Issued by the Director/Principal/HOD:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)Incomplete information filled by the applicant
2)Study certificate submitted without college stamp, signature of the principal/director
3)Any other document placed in place of study certificate.

What are the reason of rejection of Disability certificate:
Followings may be the reasons
1)Percentage of disability is not mentioned on the submitted document
2)Percentage of Disability is below then 40%
3)Certificate is not in the name of applicant
4)Submitted disability certificate is blurred
5)Any irrelevant document placed in that column
6)Disability certificate is not issued by the concerned authority
7)Signature/stamp of the issued authority is not available on the issued certificate.
8)Certificate submitted in regional language but translated copy of the disability certificate 
in Hindi or English language not submitted.

What are the reasons of rejection of HSC/SSC certificate:
Followings may be the reasons 
1)Copy of HSC/SSC certificate is blurred
2)Copy of HSC/SSC certificate is not accessible
3)Copy of HSC/SSC is not in the name of applicant
4)Copy of online result of HSC/SSC downloaded from the internet and not verified by the 
Principal/Director of the institution
5)Irrelevant Document attached in place of HSC/SSC.

What are the different documents to be uploaded with the application form:
Followings are the documents to be uploaded
1)Copy of SSC/10th certificate
2)Copy of HSC/12th certificate (In case of Degree level)
3)Copy of ITI certificate (In case of Lateral Entry for Diploma level)
4)Copy of Diploma certificate (In case of Lateral Entry for Degree level)
5)Bank Passbook
6)Caste Certificate 
7)Aadhar Card
8)Study Certificate
9)Annual Family Income Certificate
10)Bank Mandate Form.


What are the eligibility criteria for grant of PG Scholarship:
Post Graduate Scholarship is entitled only to full time GATE/GPAT qualified 
students admitted to AICTE approved programs viz Master of Engineering, 
Master of Technology, Master of Architecture and Master of Pharmacy courses 
in AICTE approved Institutions and AICTE approved University Departments.

Are the students qualifying GATE/GPAT exam after seeking admission in 
the course, eligible for grant of PG Scholarship:
Any student who qualifies the GATE/GPAT exam after the date of admission 
shall not be eligible for grant of scholarship for the reasons whatsoever it may 
be.

What is the procedure for applying online for grant of PG Scholarship 
through DBT:
Proposal for grant of PG Scholarship are called for through advertisement in 
leading newspapers,students/Institutes are advised to follow the procedure 
and guidelines contained therein.

What are the document required to be uploaded by the student:
Students are required to upload to following documents
a) Scanned PDF copy of GATE/GPAT score card
b) Scanned PDF copy of the passbook
c) Scanned PDF copy of the Aadhaar card and  Students of J&K, Meghalaya 
and Assam are exempted
d) Scanned PDF copy of caste certificate
e) Scanned PDF copy of the Non-Creamy Layer (NCL) certificate in respect 
of only OBC candidates and  Non-Creamy Layer (NCL) should not be old 
more than 1 year.

Can the Joint Account with family members be uploaded:
No, Joint account is not accepted and Only Basic General Savings 
account/Normal account should be opened in the name of the student in any 
Nationalized bank, Student should open “ NO FRILL ACCOUNT”.

During the period of the course can a student open a fresh Bank account 
or change the Branch of Savings Bank account:
Bank and Branch should not be changed during the period of course 
preferably for smooth disbursal of PG scholarship.

The data on the portal is submitted for the purpose of grant of PG 
Scholarship but it is not visible on the portal. What can the reasons be 
thereof:
Every data/attendance uploaded by the student/Institution is required to be 
submitted by pressing “Submit Application” button and Check up with your 
Institution whether “submit application” button has been pressed or not while 
submitting the data. 

Whether students from sponsored categories/Management quota/foreign 
students are eligible for grant of PG Scholarship:
No, Students from non-sponsored categories/Management quota/foreign 
students admitted with valid GATE/GPAT Score card are not eligible for grant 
of PG Scholarship. 

Whether the PG Scholarship is admissible to the GATE/GPAT qualified 
student admitted in part time courses:
No, PG Scholarship is admissible to the GATE/GPAT qualified students, 
admitted only in full time course.

Whether a student who is recipient of Scholarship either through State 
Government or Central Government sponsored schemes is eligible for 
grant of PG scholarship:
No, the student who is in receipt of any kind of Scholarship/Stipend or salary 
etc is not eligible for grant of PG Scholarship. 

Eligibility for grant of PG Scholarship to the student who had wrongly 
entered his/her category as General category while appearing for 
GATE/GPAT exam whereas she/he has secured the qualifying marks 
earmarked marks for his/her category i.e. OBC/SC/ST category:
Eligibility is considered on the basis of the category mentioned by the student 
while appearing for GATE/GPAT exam. 

Whether students are entitled for grant of any kind of medical leave, 
leave taken in emergent cases during the total duration of 24 months of 
the course:
Students are eligible for following leaves
Casual leave  15 days in a academic year
Medical leave  Maximum of one month (30 days) in academic year
Maternity leave  As per the Govt of India instructions time to time.

What is the cut-off date for grant of PG Scholarship? Whether PG 
Scholarship is entitled for extended classes and what is the duration of 
the period for grant of PG Scholarship:
No, PG Scholarship is tenable only for 24 months or for the duration of the 
course ie  from the date of commencement of classes till the date of completion 
of the classes whichever is lower and is not extendable under any 
circumstances and PG Scholarship is not entitled for extended classes. 

What is the reason for long delay in receipt of PG Scholarship: 
The attendance/data submitted by the student/institute has to be processed 
at various levels and It consumes considerable time to release the PG Scholarship 
subject to availability of funds, leading to delays. 

What is the procedure for Editing/Deleting the data wrongly entered by 
the Student/Institut:
In case wrong data has been forwarded/entered on the portal, 
Student/Institute may lodge their grievance through e-mail supported with 
scanned copies of the documents with AICTE for resolving the issue and Help line 
number 011-29581000, 011-29581333 (for portal related technical issues). 

How to block the Student ID in case the student leaves the course in 
midway? /midcourse:
In case, any student leaves the course in midway he/she will be required to 
refund the total PG Scholarship drawn at the time of leaving the course,After 
refunding the scholarship drawn, student may approach the Institute for 
blocking the student ID created by them.
What is the procedure for refunding the PG Scholarship drawn by the 
student on acquiring the fresh admission in AICTE approved 
Institutions/IIT’s/NIT’s etc:
Refund in shape of demand draft favouring “Member Secretary, AICTE” New 
Delhi through his/her previous Institution is to be done, for PG Scholarship 
drawn till date. 

Whether uploading of the data of Aadhaar card is mandatory:
Yes, as per Department of Higher Education notification, scholarships have to 
be Aadhaar seeded and payment done through the Aadhaar Payment Gateway,Therefore, bank account should be aadhaar active. 

Can a passed out student taking 2nd admission on the basis of requalifying GATE/GPAT exam and already availed the scholarship from 
any source be eligible for scholarship:
No, PG Scholarship is not admissible to passed out students taking 2nd time 
admission on the basis of re-qualifying GATE/GPAT exam who have already 
availed the scholarship from AICTE or any other Centrally funded Institution 
like – IIT’s, NIT’s and IIIT’s etc.

What is the schedule for marking attendance/forwarding of list of 
absentees:
Attendance/list of absentees is to be marked/forwarded positively till 15th for 
disbursement by 30th of every month. 

Whom to contact in case of any difficulties in accessing the portal for 
submitting online application:
One can avail Helpdesk Service on e-mail ID pgscholarship@aicte-indiaorg, 
phone number 011-29581000 and for technical issues in the portal
students/Institutions can make call on - 011-29581333 (from 9-30 am to.5-30
pm) on all working days (Monday-Friday) for any queries.

What is a Digital Signature:
A digital signature is an electronic form of a signature that can be used to authenticate the identity of 
the sender of a message or the signer of a document, and also ensure that the original content of the 
message or document that has been sent is unchanged and  Digital signatures are easily transportable and 
cannot be imitated by someone else,The ability to ensure that the original signed message arrived 
means that the sender cannot easily disclaim it later.

What is a Digital Signature Certificate:
Digital Signature Certificates (DSC) is the electronic format of physical or paper certificate like a 
driving License, passport etc Certificates serve as proof of identity of an individual for a certain 
purpose; for example, a Passport identifies someone as a citizen of that country; who can legally travel 
to any country,Likewise, a Digital Signature Certificate can be presented electronically to prove your 
identity, to access information or services on the Internet or to sign certain documents digitally.

Why do I need Digital Signature Certificate:
A Digital Signature Certificate authenticates your identity electronically, It also provides you with a 
high level of security for your online transactions by ensuring absolute privacy of the information 
exchanged using a Digital Signature Certificate and You can use certificates to encrypt information such 
that only the intended recipient can read it, You can digitally sign information to assure the recipient 
that it has not been changed in transit, and also verify your identity as the sender of the message.

Where can I purchase a Digital Signature Certificate:
Legally valid Digital Signature Certificates are issued only through a Controller of Certifying 
Authorities (CCA), Govt of India, licensed Certifying Authorities (CA).

Can Digital Signature Certificates can be used in wireless networks:
Yes, digital signature certificates can be employed in wireless networks.

How long will it take for the application to be processed:
DSC issuance would require 5 business days from the date of applying/application.

I’m trying to apply for a new Digital Signature Certificate,what user type should I select:
You can select the 'User Type' based on your requirement of Digital Signature Certificate and It can be for 
personal, company or government use,If you choose user type as 'Company' or 'Government', you need 
to submit company or government organization related documents for verification as part of the Digital 
Signature Certificate issue process.
